exposure of these cells to ghrelin caused up-regulation of several insulin-induced activities including tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 ( irs-1 ) , association of the adapter molecule growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 with irs-1 , mitogen-activated protein kinase activity , and cell proliferation .
zd1839 suppressed egfr phosphorylation in all egfr-expressing cells ( p &lt;.001 ) .
in addition , zd1839 inhibited mapk activation ( p &lt;.001 ) and reduced keratinocyte proliferation index ( p &lt;.001 ) .
concomitantly , zd1839 increased the expression of p27(kip1) ( p &lt;.001 ) and maturation markers ( p &lt;.001 ) and increased apoptosis ( p &lt;.001 ) .
conclusion zd1839 inhibits egfr activation and affects downstream receptor-dependent processes in vivo .
this effect was mediated through downregulation of the anti-hbv immune response .
we found that both immature and mature dcs were relatively resistant to tgf-beta .
the addition of tgf-beta to naive human cd4+ t cells , which are required by genetically modified dc to elicit antitumor immunity , resulted in their hyporesponsiveness to dc stimulation in a dose-dependent manner .
more importantly , activated cd4+ t cells induced by dc stimulation were very sensitive to tgf-beta , and this susceptibility was enhanced by their previous exposure to tgf-beta .
the underlying mechanism was linked to tgf-beta-induced apoptosis of activated t cells .
however , the presence of stimulation from dc or antibodies to cd3 plus cd28 could partly reverse the immunosuppressive effect of tgf-beta on activated cd4+ t cells .
compared with control cells , cells that produced increased amounts of tgf-beta proliferated in vitro more slowly .
disruption of autocrine tgf-beta signaling in the tgf-beta-overexpressing cells reduced their in vivo growth rate .
tissue invasion by the tumor was a distinctive feature of the tgf-beta-overexpressing cells , whether or not the autocrine loop was intact .
furthermore , tumors derived from tgf-beta-overexpressing cells , irrespective of the status of the autocrine tgf-beta-signaling pathway , had a higher incidence of lung metastasis .
consistent with the suggestion that tgf-beta's enhancement of invasion and metastasis is paracrine-based , we observed no significant differences among the cell clones in an in vitro invasion assay .
here , we show that prl , though it failed to activate mouse peritoneal resident macrophages ( rms ) , acted as a second signal and activated mouse peritoneal inflammatory macrophages ( ems ) to a tumoricidal state .
our observations further suggest that prl alone and in synergy with ifn-gamma , released through induction of il-12 , may generate tumoricidal macrophages and thus regulate the antitumor immune response of tumor hosts .
in this way , dril1 not only rescues ras(v12)-induced senescence but also causes these fibroblasts to become highly oncogenic .
furthermore , dril1 immortalizes mouse fibroblasts , in the presence of high levels of p16(ink4a) .
immortalization by dril1 , whose product binds the prb-controlled transcription factor e2f1 ( ref. 8 ) , is correlated with induction of e2f1 activity .
correspondingly , dril1 induces the e2f1 target cyclin e1 , overexpression of which is sufficient to trigger escape from senescence .
here we show paradoxically that egf enhanced the osm-induced inhibition of proliferation and induction of cellular differentiation in both estrogen receptor positive and negative breast cancer cells .
this functional synergism was also seen with heregulin but not scf , pdgf or igf-1 , indicating that it was specific to egf-related growth factors .
thus , we have demonstrated that the receptors and signalling pathways of two apparently unrelated growth factors were intimately linked , resulting in an unexpected biological effect .
antral inflammation increased significantly with time in infected mice .
there was a significant , protective effect on the development of preneoplastic fundic lesions and invasive carcinoma attributable to the deletion of one p53 allele ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
submucosal invasive foci were observed in 9 of 11 wt-infected mice ranging from 13 to 15 months p.i. ; invasion of adjacent submucosal blood vessels by glandular epithelia also was present in 5 of these mice .
in sera from wt mice , igg2a , considered a proinflammatory th1 response , continued to rise throughout the 15-month study ( p &lt ; 0.004 ) .
our results support the hypothesis that germ-line deletion of one p53 allele results in a down-regulated th1 response to gastric helicobacter infection , possibly because of t-cell senescence , which may indirectly protect against the development of gastric cancer and other epithelial-derived neoplasms associated with chronic inflammation .
a comparison of genes transcriptionally up-regulated in senescence to those in which expression is significantly down-regulated in immortalized hpecs identified three genes : the chemokine brak , doc1 , and a member of the insulin-like growth factor axis , igfbp-3 .
thus , these genes may function in novel pathways that regulate senescence and are inactivated during immortalization .
these changes may be critical not only in allowing cells to bypass senescence in vitro but in the progression of prostate cancer in vivo .
overexpression of cyclin d1 was detected in 60% ( 263/440 ) and amplification of cyclin d1 was noted in 27% ( 119/440 ) of the primary breast carcinomas .
a significant relationship was noted between amplification of cyclin d1 and lymph node metastases ( p&lt;0.05 ) but not with histological grade ( p&gt;0.05 ) , estrogen receptor status ( p&gt;0.05 ) and proliferation index ( ki-67 and pcna ) ( p&gt;0.05 ) .
however , overexpression of cyclin d1 was statistically associated with well differentiated tumors ( p&lt;0.05 ) and estrogen receptor positivity ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
moreover , overexpression and amplification of cyclin d1 in preinvasive , preinvasive and adjacent invasive lesions , and invasive carcinomas suggest that the gene may play an important role in early and late stages of breast carcinogenesis .
furthermore , only low levels of cell-mediated immunity against the tumour and activation of nk cells were observed , indicating that antimetastatic effects of ifn-gamma is not mediated by host cells .
these observations suggest that ifn-gamma prevents b16 melanoma experimental metastasis by directly inhibiting the cell growth , although antitumour host functions may also be involved in a later phase .
upon senescence , two truncated deltanp63 proteins decreased in abundance whereas two tap63 isoforms accumulated. 2-d gel analysis showed that the deltanp63 proteins underwent post-translational modifications in both proliferating and senescent cells .
direct binding of deltanp63 proteins to a p53 consensus motif was greater in proliferating cells than senescent cells .
in contrast p63alpha isoforms bound to dna in a p53 dependent manner and this was higher in senescent cells than proliferating cells .
taken together the results indicate that p63 proteins may play a role in replicative senescence either by competition for p53 dna binding sites or by direct interaction with p53 protein bound to dna .
thus , sv40 infection leads to telomerase activity before the infected mesothelial cells become transformed and immortalized .
induction of telomerase activity by sv40 may be related to the very high rate of mesothelial cell immortalization that is characteristically associated with sv40 infection of mesothelial cells .
in this report , we demonstrate that treatment of the wild-type hct116 ( wt hct116 ) human colon cancer cell line and the isogenic p53(-/-) hct116 and p21(-/-) hct116 cell lines with a high concentration ( 250 nm ) of cpt resulted in apoptosis , indicating that apoptosis occurred by a p53- and p21-independent mechanism .
in contrast , treatment with a low concentration ( 20 nm ) of cpt induced cell cycle arrest and senescence of the wt hct116 cells , but apoptosis of the p53(-/-) hct116 and p21(-/-) hct116 cells .
further investigations indicated that p53-dependent expression of p21 blocked apoptosis of wt hct116 cells treated with 20 nm , but not 250 nm cpt .
interestingly , blocking of the apoptotic pathway , by z-vad-fmk , in p21(-/-) hct116 cells following treatment with 20 nm cpt did not permit the cells to develop properties of senescence .
these observations demonstrated that p21 was required for senescence development of hct116 cells following treatment with low concentrations of cpt .
results in the limited number of cases in which paired comparisons were possible , the expression of ts and ki67 was significantly higher in metastases than in the matched primary tumour samples ( p = 0.014 and 0.016 , respectively ) , whereas rb expression was lower in metastases than in primary tumours ( p = 0.024 ) .
fas receptor expression was high in normal mucosa but absent in primary tumours and metastases , whereas the opposite was seen for p53 .
apoptosis was more abundant in primary tumours than in metastases .
conclusions these results demonstrate that proliferation and apoptosis are disturbed during colorectal cancer progression , and this is accompanied by loss of rb and fas expression , the accumulation of p53 and ts , and changes in the expression patterns of bax , mcl-1 , and bcl-xl .
in this study , cisplatin and uft , a form of uracil and tegafur which is a prodrug of 5-fu , were administered with immunomodulator polysaccharide k ( psk ) to ten patients with colorectal cancer , who showed distant metastasis in the liver or lung , and the serum levels of sil-2r and stnf-r1 and the production of gamma-interferon ( gamma-inf ) and interleukin-10 by peripheral blood mononuclear cells were measured .
thus , this combination appeared to have immunomodulative potential in patients with advanced colorectal cancer .
we now show that dna damage is able to induce senescence in tumor cells expressing wild-type p53 .
we also show that cytotoxics are capable of inducing senescence in tumor tissue in vivo .
our results suggest that p53 and p21 play a central role in the onset of senescence , whereas p16(ink4a) function may be involved in maintaining senescence .
thus , like apoptosis , senescence appears to be a p53-induced cellular response to dna damage and an important factor in determining treatment outcome .
using retroviral cdna expression libraries , we identify bcl6 as a potent inhibitor of senescence .
bcl6 efficiently immortalizes primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts and cooperates with ras in oncogenic transformation .
bcl6 overrides the senescence response downstream of p53 through a process that requires induction of cyclin d1 expression , as cyclin d1 knockout fibroblasts are specifically resistant to bcl6 immortalization .
we show that bcl6 expression also dramatically extends the replicative lifespan of primary human b cells in culture and induces cyclin d1 expression , indicating that bcl6 has a similar activity in lymphoid cells .
however , 15d-pgj2 facilitated fas-mediated hcc apoptosis that could not be induced by fas alone .
these results suggest that ppargamma can augment tnf-family-induced apoptosis .
both treatments also caused activation of the immune-responsive transcription factor nf-kappab although there were time-related differences .
although exposure to either stress factor caused a stimulation of inflammatory markers , there were time-dependent differences in the response .
this may reflect the ability of the cells to discern different stress factors and thus orchestrate an innate immune response profile distinct to each immunogen .
using this approach , telomerase inhibition in immortal murine fibroblasts resulted in critical telomere shortening , leading to slowed proliferation , abnormal morphology , altered cell cycle , and telomere dysfunction with cytogenetic instability , followed by apoptotic cell death .
subpopulations of two telomerase-inhibited clones escaped widespread apoptosis , showing proliferative recovery in culture despite persistently inhibited telomerase activity with progressive telomere shortening and dysfunction .
this study , by targeting immortal murine cells for telomerase inhibition , demonstrates the importance of telomerase to murine cell immortalization and telomere maintenance .
a rare immunohistochemical study using 28 surgical sections of human chondrosarcoma revealed that 67.9% of tumour cells had weak ( 10-40% ) or strong ( &gt;40% ) positive immunoreaction for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma .
pioglitazone , a selective ligand for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma , and 15-deoxy-delta(12,14)-prostaglandin j(2) ( 15d-pgj(2) ) , a putative endogenous ligand for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma , inhibited the proliferation of oums-27 cells in a dose-dependent manner .
the mechanism of cytotoxic effects of 15d-pgj(2) was via apoptosis as shown by dna fragmentation using tunel stain and dna ladder formation , and by ultrastructural analysis using transmission electron microscopy .
flow-cytometric analysis using annexin-v-fluorescein and propidium iodide detected the early change of apoptosis , as well as necrosis of oums-27 cells at 4 h after co-incubation with 15d-pgj(2) .
these results suggest that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of chondrosarcoma , and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ligands , especially 15d-pgj(2) , may be of therapeutic value in the treatment of human chondrosarcoma .
we demonstrate a novel mechanism for the oncogenic capacity of notch1 by showing that the interaction between intact notch1 on tumor cells and its ligand jagged1 dramatically induces proliferation and inhibition of apoptosis in vitro .
whereas lxsn-hfk as well as early passage keratinocytes expressing hpv-16 e6 and e7 ( p7 e6/7-hfk ) were both moderately responsive to uvb irradiation , late passage-immortalized keratinocytes ( p27 e6/7-hfk ) were exquisitely sensitive to uvb-induced apoptosis .
in addition , the caspase inhibitor devd-cho reduced the apoptotic response and increased survival of all three hfk types .
the immortalization process subsequent to the expression of hpv e6 and e7 may therefore determine uvb sensitivity by switching the mode of apoptosis from a caspase-8 to a bcl-2-caspase-9-mediated pathway of apoptosis .
treatment with selenium caused g1 arrest and an 80% reduction in the s phase of lncap with no effect on pc3 .
however , pc3 cells transfected with the androgen receptor ( pc3-ar2 ) exhibited a g2/m arrest and a marked reduction ( 57% ) in the s phase during cell cycle progression .
in the analysis of cell cycle regulatory molecules , selenium-treated cells demonstrated a significant induction of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors cip1/p21 and kip1/p27 .
this effect appears to be dependent on the presence of a functioning androgen receptor .
in contrast , cd70-positive glioma cells induced apoptosis in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmcs ) in a cd70-dependent manner .
neutralization of cd70 expressed on glioma cells prevented apoptosis and enhanced the release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha in cocultures of glioma cells and pbmcs .
the effects of cd70-expressing glioma cells on pbmcs were mimicked by agonistic cd27 antibodies .
conversely , the shedding of cd27 by pbmcs was identified as a possible escape mechanism from glioma cell-induced cd70-dependent apoptosis .
thus , induction of b-cell and t-cell apoptosis via interactions of cd70 expressed on glioma cells and cd27 expressed on b and t cells may be a novel way for the immune escape of malignant gliomas .
structure/function analysis showed that a highly conserved 82-amino acid portion of af10 , comprising 2 adjacent alpha-helical domains , was sufficient for immortalizing activity when fused to mll .
neither helical domain alone mediated immortalization , and deletion of the 29-amino acid leucine zipper within this region completely abrogated transforming activity .
we found that 19 of 52 mice inoculated with vector-transduced cells developed metastases in multiple organs while only one of 55 mice receiving rarbeta2-transduced cells displayed evidence of metastases ( p &lt ; 0.000001 , combined experiments , two-tailed fisher's exact test ) .
our findings suggest that rarbeta2 may play a role in inhibiting the metastatic cascade in a mouse mammary gland xenograft tumor model and is a potential candidate for therapeutic intervention in human breast cancer .
when overexpressed in primary mouse embryo fibroblasts ( mefs ) , sirt1 antagonizes pml-induced acetylation of p53 and rescues pml-mediated premature cellular senescence .
taken together , our data establish the sirt1 deacetylase as a novel negative regulator of p53 function capable of modulating cellular senescence .
results it was demonstrated that afp enhanced the proliferation of human hepatoma bel 7402 cell in a dose dependent fashion as shown in mtt assay , ( 3)h-thymidine incorporation and s-phase percentage up to 2-fold .
two subtypes of afp receptors were identified in the cells with kds of 1.3 x 10(-9)mol.l(-1) and 9.9 x10(-8)mol .
conclusion these results demonstrate that afp is a potential growth factor to promote the proliferation of human hepatoma bel 7402 cells .
its growth-regulatory effects are mediated by its specific plasma membrane receptors coupled with its transmembrane signaling transduction through the pathway of camp-pka and intracellular calcium to regulate the expression of oncogenes .
invasion assays demonstrated that pdx-transfected cells exhibited a reduced invasive ability in vitro and in vivo .
because furin inhibition inhibits both invasiveness and cell growth in astrocytoma , furin should be considered a promising target for glioblastoma therapy .
nuclear fragmentation analysis and cell proliferation assays completed in the presence of the pan-caspase inhibitor benzyloxycarbonyl-val-ala-asp(ome)-fluoromethylketone excluded apoptosis as the responsible mechanism .
the percentage of cells containing senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity was doubled compared with control cell cultures .
these findings indicate that igfbp-rp1 is an inhibitor of mcf-7 breast cancer cell proliferation and may act via a cellular senescence-like mechanism .
transfection with htert alone , led to the immortalization of two out of three cultures of bone marrow-derived ecs ( bmecs ) .
bmsvts exhibited a partially transformed phenotype , demonstrating growth factor independence , altered antigen expression and forming tiny , infrequent colonies in vitro .
transduction of bmsvts with htert resulted in immortalization of 4 out of 4 cultures .
bmsvts immortalized with htert formed large colonies in vitro and small transient tumours in vivo .
this model will be useful for understanding mechanisms underlying vascular and angiogenic neoplasias , as well as for testing drugs designed to curtail aberrant ec growth .
here we report that nup98-hoxa9 , indeed mimicks hoxa9 plus meis1 coexpression - it immortalizes myeloid progenitors , prevents differentiation in response to gm-csf , il-3 , g-csf , and permits proliferation in scf .
using hoxa9(-/-) marrow , we demonstrate that expression of hoxa9 is not required for myeloid immortalization by nup98-hoxa9 .
rapid leukaemogenesis by nup98-hoxa9 may therefore result from both the intrinsic functions of nup98-hoxa9 , as well as of those of coexpressed hox and meis1 genes .
exogenous igf-i and igf-ii ( 0.2-200 nmol/l ) stimulated proliferation of both the control and antisense clones in a dose-dependent manner , but the relative potency and efficacy of igf-ii was higher in the antisense clone compared to the control .
cells acutely exposed to adriamycin exhibited an increase in p53 activity , a decline in telomerase activity , and a dramatic increase in beta-galactosidase , a marker of senescence .
inactivation of wild-type p53 resulted in a transition of the cellular response to adriamycin treatment from replicative senescence to delayed apoptosis , demonstrating that p53 plays an integral role in the fate of breast tumor cells treated with dna-damaging agents .
treatment of mcf-7-htert cells with adriamycin produced an identical senescence response as controls without signs of telomere shortening , indicating that the senescence after treatment is telomere length-independent .
however , we found that exposure to adriamycin resulted in an overrepresentation of cytogenetic changes involving telomeres , showing an altered telomere state induced by adriamycin is probably a causal factor leading to the senescence phenotype .
to our knowledge , these data are the first to demonstrate that the mechanism of adriamycin-induced senescence is dependent on both functional p53 and telomere dysfunction rather than overall shortening .
we found that eph4 cells expressing ectopically tr ( eph4 + tr alpha 1 ) or v-erba ( eph4 + v-erba ) proliferated faster than parental eph4 cells that contained low levels of endogenous tr .
the study of cell-cycle genes showed that t(3) decreased cyclin d1 rna and protein levels in eph4 + tr alpha 1 cells .
here we demonstrate that egfr mediates the upar/integrin/fibronectin ( fn ) induced growth pathway .
its activation is ligand-independent and does not require high egfr , but does require high upar expression .
disruption of upar or egfr signaling reduces hep3 proliferation in vivo .
tumor-targeted tnfalpha gene delivery induced pronounced hemorrhagic tumor necrosis and inhibition of tumor growth in three murine tumor models of different tissue origins , neuro2a neuroblastoma , metha fibrosarcoma , and m-3 melanoma , with complete tumor regressions observed in the metha model .
reduced immunosuppression in solid organ transplant patients resulted in resolution of disease in 14/24 , which was sustained in 11 .
in the transplant group close monitoring of response during reduction in immunosuppression is essential and the early use of b nhl chemotherapy may be effective .
in lung tissue , an er alpha transcript was found at various levels in 38 out of 46 cases ( 83% ) .
er beta was expressed in all cases .
the ers were expressed at similar levels in females and males , and the levels of er alpha and er beta mrna were significantly related ( p&lt;0.0001 ) .
compared with the lung tissue , er expression levels were lower in 16 human lung tumor cell lines and two immortalized human bronchial epithelial cell lines .
five of the tumor cell lines ( 31% ) expressed detectable levels of er alpha and both of the immortalized cell lines showed a weak er alpha expression level .
all cell lines expressed the er beta .
the lung cell lines beas-2b and db354 showed significantly reduced cell proliferation in response to tamoxifen and a minor increased growth in response to 17 beta-estradiol .
an increase in the number of iga(+) ( p&lt;0.01 ) was observed , but not in igg(+) ( p&lt;0.01 ) , or in the cd4(+) population ( p&lt;0.01 ) in the mice treated with dmh and yoghurt .
while in the group with the carcinogen there was an enhancement in the igg(+) b cells ( p&lt;0.01 ) and cd8(+) t cells ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
yoghurt increased the number of apoptotic cells and induced ifn-gamma and tnf-alpha cytokine release , their production being regulated by an increase in il-10 ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
we demonstrated that yoghurt may exert antitumour activity by a decrease in the inflammatory immune response mediated by iga(+) increase , apoptosis induction and il-10 release .
instead , we found a c to t transition causing an arg to cys amino acid change within the same codon in one polish breast cancer patient and her daughter .
they were diagnosed for bilateral breast cancer and carried a brca1 mutation ( 5382insc ) .
analysis of the other polish samples showed no correlation of the exon 8 polymorphism to breast cancer , bilateral breast cancer , brca1/brca2 mutations or age at diagnosis .
results whereas anti-il-8 alone had no appreciable antimetastatic effect , the combination of abxil8 significantly enhanced the antitumor effects of abxegfr , resulting in greater survival of scid tumor-bearing mice .
this effect on survival was correlated with decreased metastatic spread and decreased tumor size in mice receiving both antibodies .
this supports the notion that disrupted haematopoietic cell differentiation is responsible for pre-leukaemic immortalization by the hox11 oncoprotein .
the percentage of eralpha positive tumors was 65.8% in masses from control animals , and significantly dropped to 36.8% in tumors from soy treated rats ( p=0.010 ) .
the percentage of erbeta positive tumors was 70.3% in masses from control animals vs. 50.0% in tumors from soy exposed animals ( p=0.066 ) .
moreover , the percentage of cases which were both eralpha and erbeta positive was significantly lower ( 17.6% ) in soy treated than in control animals ( 51.3% ) ( p=0.006 ) .
the percentage of pr positive tumors was 34.2% in control animals vs. 2.6% in tumors from soy treated rats ( p=0.0006 ) .
there were no statistically significant differences in the percentage of tumors positively stained for neu , apoptosis , or pcna , in control vs. soy treated rats .
however , when analyzing the reciprocal correlation among the different biochemical parameters we showed that , in treated animals , the majority of eralpha positive tumors ( 91.7% ) were also pcna positive ( p=0.036 ) .
the median percentage of pcna positivity was significantly higher in eralpha positive than in eralpha negative tumors ( 25 vs. 5% ) ( p=0.0031 ) .
here , we report that bmi-1 , originally identified as a c-myc cooperating oncoprotein , can bypass senescence , extend the replicative life span , and immortalize mecs .
telomerase induction by bmi-1 was an early event in the extension of the replicative life span and immortalization .
bmi-1 was not overexpressed in htert-immortalized mecs , suggesting that bmi-1 functions upstream of htert .
deletion analysis of the bmi-1 protein suggested that the ring finger , as well as a conserved helix-turn-helix-turn domain , were required for its ability to induce telomerase and immortalize mecs .
in addition , no visible metastases or alterations in other organs were observed .
we conclude that , though immunological parameters were altered by the treatments , immunosuppressor drugs did not condition tumor development .
in all these stages , a highly increased and varying autophagic capacity was found compared with the host tissue .
the basal ( non-stimulated ) autophagic compartment was measurable only at month 5 and month 15 , and its regression upon cycloheximide was consistent with increased basal autophagic activity .
compared with the host tissue , autophagic capacity profoundly decreased in the differentiated and anaplastic adenocarcinomas at month 20 , when , surprisingly , cycloheximide was unable to inhibit segregation .
we show that cho cells are efficiently and reversibly arrested in g(1) by dmso in concentrations ranging between 1 and 2% .
in our experiments , &gt;90% of cells grown for 96 h in presence of the drug were arrested in g(1) and synchronously re-entered s phase approximately 8-12 h after release .
furthermore , expression levels of p27 were down-regulated during g(1) progression and cyclin d3 and e expression patterns were similar to those observed after serum starvation .
our results show that dmso is a very powerful inducer of g(1) synchronization in cho cells without detectable cytotoxic or genetic effects in cell populations released from g(1) arrest .
dmso synchronization represents a model system in which to analyse protein activities regulating g(1) progression and investigate the response of g(1) cells to mutagen treatments .
a statistically significant increase in proliferation rate of human mcf-7 breast cancer cells was detected for two nitro musks ( musk xylene , musk ketone ) , a major metabolite of musk xylene ( p-amino-musk xylene ) , and the polycyclic musk fragrance ahtn .
this indicates that these substances do , in fact , demonstrate estrogenic activity .
coincubation with the antiestrogen tamoxifen showed that the increase in proliferation rate by the musk fragrances is estrogen receptor-mediated .
here , we report that expression of a murine analog of this amino-terminal mutant of nf2 leads to complete transformation of nih3t3 fibroblasts in culture .
cells that express this nf2 mutant allele display disruptions of the actin cytoskeleton , lack of contact inhibition of growth , and anchorage-independent growth .
however , they declined in liver-metastatic foci , and in primary cancers showing large size , mucinous type , venous invasion , lymphatic invasion , poorly differentiated type , deep invasion , lymph-nodal metastasis , hepatic metastasis or advanced stage .
thus , in colorectal tumours , p107 expression rises abnormally and gradually during carcinogenesis and then falls during invasion , and thereby probably perturbs the cell-cycle control and promotes carcinogenesis and invasion .
here we demonstrate that stable expression of an activated form of mkk6 ( mkk6ee ) , a direct activator of the stress-induced p38(hog) mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway , is sufficient for inducing features of senescence including a flattened , vacuolated , and irregular morphology , staining for acidic beta-galactosidase , and accumulation of age-associated pigments .
consistent with the senescent phenotype , p38(hog) activation induces a g(1) cell cycle arrest , which is permanent and irreversible after 4 days .
mkk6ee also induces biochemical features of senescence in a p38-dependent manner , including enhanced expression of p21(cip) , a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor .
microarray analysis of mkk6ee cells showed a pattern of gene expression noted previously in werner syndrome and senescent fibroblasts .
these results define p38(hog) as an intracellular pathway that activates a senescence checkpoint in tumor cells and may play a role in ras- or stress-induced senescence .
trastuzumab was able to inhibit cell proliferation in a time-dependent manner , with growth inhibition also obtained at low concentrations ( 0.1-1 microg/ml ) .
these results suggest that the expression of pd-l1 can serve as a potent mechanism for potentially immunogenic tumors to escape from host immune responses and that blockade of interaction between pd-1 and pd-l may provide a promising strategy for specific tumor immunotherapy .
it was found that walker carcinosarcoma cells moving in a dense population neither show contact inhibition of movement when colliding with one another nor increase their motile activity as a result of contact stimulation of motility .
here , we demonstrated hgrp-r activation stimulated sustained cyclic amp response element binding protein ( creb ) phosphorylation and transactivation in duodenal cancer cells through a protein kinase c and partially p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase-dependent pathway .
in contrast , intracellular calcium , erk1/2 , protein kinase a , and pi3 kinase were not involved .
apoptosis was detected by in situ labelling of nuclear dna fragmentation according to tunel method , and proliferation by immunocytochemistry .
triple therapy with 3 and 6 micro g/kg body weight had no effect on any of the parameters measured , except in reducing the relative volume density of tumour blood vessels .
treatment with 20 , 30 and 40 micro g/kg body weight of the previously mentioned bioactive substances reduced the tumour volume , the relative volume density of blood vessels and increased the relative volume density of necrotic tissue and of apoptotic nuclei ( in the 20 micro g group ) .
we hypothesize that mast cells function in humans , as in mouse strains , by initiating immunosuppression following uv irradiation and , thereby , allowing a permissive environment for the development of bcc .
results egfr gene amplification was demonstrated in three of the primary gbm lines .
flow cytometry demonstrated increased apoptosis in c225-treated , egfr-amplified gbm lines , but not in unamplified lines .
there was a decrease in vascular endothelial growth factor expression in all gbm lines with exposure to c225 .
we found that clotrimazole induced a significant , dose- and time-dependent reduction in the levels of glucose 1,6-bisphosphate , fructose 1,6-bisphosphate , atp , and cell viability .
mice with two bilateral c26 tumors rejected both tumors upon peritumoral injection of one tumor , indicating the development of a systemic immune response .
the tumor specificity of the immune response was demonstrated in mice bearing a c26 tumor and a renca tumor at the same time .
tumor-specific cd8 t cells as well as innate effector cells contributed to the antitumor activity of treatment .
in conclusion , peritumoral cpg odn monotherapy elicits a strong cd8 t cell response and innate effector mechanisms that seem to act in concert to overcome unresponsiveness of the immune system toward a growing tumor .
in the bypass , stoma , and nonoperation groups , none survived 1.6 years .
the factors influencing the survival rate of the 49 patients undergoing esophagectomy were grade of lymph node metastasis , amount of perioperative blood transfusion , lymph vessel , and blood vessel invasion .
among these , independent prognostic factors for survival were amount of blood transfusion ( -6 units vs. -7 units , p &lt;0.0001 ) and grade of lymph node metastasis [ none- or peritumoral [ lymph nodes adjacent to the main tumor or at a nearby location ( &lt;3 cm ) from the tumor ] metastasis vs. more distant metastasis [ lymph nodes at a distant location ( &gt ; 3 cm) ] , p = 0.016 ] .
esophageal carcinoma patients with t4 disease and distinct metastasis in the lymph nodes at a distant location ( &gt;3 cm ) from the primary tumor may not benefit from an esophageal resection .
when the cd81 -/- mutation is placed on different genetic backgrounds , there is a remarkable range in the penetrance of the null allele phenotype , demonstrating that the mutation can be affected by modifier loci .
this work provides support for the role of cd81 in the regulation of astrocyte and microglial number , perhaps by regulating cell proliferation by a contact inhibition-dependent mechanism .
when overexpressed in 3t3 mouse fibroblast cells , prc17 induced growth in low serum , loss of contact inhibition , and tumor formation in nude mice .
point mutations that alter conserved amino acid residues within the prc17 gap domain abolished its transforming abilities , suggesting that gap activity is essential for its oncogenic function .
whereas prc17 is amplified in 15% of prostate cancers , it is highly overexpressed in approximately one-half of metastatic prostate tumors .
her2 , her3 , and epidermal growth factor receptor were detected in the androgen-independent cell line 22rv1 .
heregulin stimulation results in receptor phosphorylation and cell proliferation that is inhibited by increasing concentrations of anti-her2 recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody ( rhumab ) 2c4 .
microscopic bile duct invasion was found in 89 of 217 cases ( 40.6% ) and , of these cases , 23 ( 10.6% ) had macroscopic intrabiliary extension .
these were compared with 20 cases , selected randomly , of colorectal cancer that did not show bile duct invasion and were diagnosed as liver metastases .
these data suggest that macroscopic intrabiliary extension could be a good indicator of a unique subgroup of colorectal cancers showing less aggressive features even though they develop liver metastases .
careful histological evaluation is important even for metastatic tumors .
cd3(+) , cd4(+) and cd19(+) cell reconstitution was slower in the high-dose group .
overexpression of apa-1 did not cause cell cycle arrest ; but , it induced transcription of the extracellular matrix-remodeling genes mmp1 and pai2 , which are associated with fibroblast senescence .
mmp1 and pai2 transcript levels also increased in telomerase-immortalized fibroblasts that had high levels of apa-1 , demonstrating that the matrix-remodeling phenotype of senescent fibroblasts was not induced by telomere attrition alone .
apa-1 was able to transactivate and bind to the mmp1 promoter , suggesting that apa-1 is a transcription factor that regulates expression of matrix-remodeling genes during fibroblast senescence .
a high telomerase activity was shown to be associated with late-staged cancers and metastasis , providing arguments supporting the role of telomerase not only in the development but also in the progression of colorectal carcinoma .
the shee14 cells exhibited good differentiation with contact-inhibition and anchorage-dependent growth .
the shee20 cells exhibited increase of senescent and apoptotic cells , and difficulty in propagation .
the shee30 cells exhibited a higher proliferative index and some undifferentiated cells , with weakened contact-inhibition and anchorage-dependent growth .
compared with shee14 and shee20 , shee30 cells were of immortalized status with immortal phenotype , which consisted of telomerase activity , increase of cell proliferation , weakened contact-inhibition and anchorage-dependent growth , dose dependency to egf and lack of tumor formation .
from passage 14 to 30th passage , shee cells went through cellular senescence , apoptosis and immortalization .
with a view toward diagnostic and biological aspects , telomerase activity is a crucial step and a cardinal requirement for immortalization .
the telomerase activity and other immortal phenotypes are potential markers for monitoring the process of immortalization .
in this study , nur77 can be seen to regulate apoptosis via its expression and translocation , rather than its transactivation activity in gastric cancer cells .
this tpa-induced translocation of nur77 was in association with the initiation of apoptosis in gastric cancer cells .
although all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) could not induce apoptosis in bgc-823 cells due to failure of stimulating nur77 translocation , expression of nur77 in the nucleus was required for cell growth inhibition by atra .
transfection of antisense nur77 receptor into bgc-823 cells resulted in resistance of cell growth against atra inhibition , and the cells were still arrested in the s phase .
furthermore , the action of nur77 in tpa-induced apoptosis was mediated through a protein kinase c signaling pathway , while mitogen-activated protein kinase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling pathways were responsible for the regulation of nur77 mrna expression .
fourteen had pure ipc , 13 had ipc with dcis , and 13 had ipc with invasion .
conclusions when ipc is identified , it is frequently associated with dcis and or invasion .
either ra or il-1beta could significantly inhibit the proliferation of hmec .
growth curves of the breast carcinoma cell lines showed strong inhibitory effects of ra and il-1beta on the growth of the estrogen receptor ( er ) positive mcf-7 cell line , but only a small effect on the er negative mda-mb-231 cells .
this adverse effect of il-12 could not be explained by a direct cytotoxic effect of natural killer cells directed towards dc , nor the production of nitric oxide leading to down-regulation of the immune response - the two mechanisms previously recognized to explain immune-suppressive effects of il-12-based vaccine therapy .
in rat liver epithelial wb-f344 cells , tcdd induces a release from contact inhibition , which is manifested by a twofold increase in cell number when tcdd ( 1 nm for 48 h ) is added to confluent cells in the presence of serum , but not when given to exponentially growing or subconfluent , serum-deprived wb-f344 cells .
loss of g1 arrest was also shown by flow cytometric analysis .
we demonstrate that tcdd treatment significantly increases cyclin d2 and cyclin a protein levels and show by immunofluorescence that these proteins accumulate in the nucleus .
although tcdd treatment leads to a strong increase in cyclin d2/cdk4 and cyclin a/cdk2 complex formation , we could only detect an elevation of cyclin a/cdk2 activity .
in accordance with a lack of elevated cdk4 activity , no decrease in the amount of hypophosphorylated retinoblastoma protein could be shown after tcdd treatment .
the importance of increased cyclin a/cdk2 activity for tcdd-dependent release from contact inhibition was shown by the fact that the cdk2/cdc2-specific inhibitor olomoucine ( 25 microm ) abolished tcdd response .
these data indicate cyclin a-dependent loss of g1 arrest after tcdd treatment mainly downstream of the retinoblastoma protein .
parenchymal and vascular-associated cells , phenotypically similar to retinal microglia , strongly expressed mhc-ii immunoreactivity and were distributed throughout primary rb specimens .
moreover , stressed apoptotic 12b1-d1 cells were more effective in stimulating dendritic cells to secrete interleukin-12 ( il-12 ) and in enhancing their immunostimulatory functions in mixed leukocyte reactions .
furthermore , we demonstrated that immunization of mice with stressed apoptotic 12b1-d1 cells induced the secretion of t helper-1 ( t(h)1 ) profile of cytokines by spleen cells .
our data indicate that stressed apoptotic tumor cells are capable of providing the necessary danger signals , likely through increased surface expression of heat shock proteins ( hsps ) , resulting in activation/maturation of dendritic cells and , ultimately , the generation of potent antitumor t-cell responses .
under estrogen-deprived conditions , the cr-extract ( 10(-3)-10(-5) dilutions ) significantly inhibited mcf-7 cell proliferation .
additionally , application of the cr-extract inhibited estrogen-induced proliferation of mcf-7 cells .
moreover , the proliferation-inhibiting effect of tamoxifen was enhanced by the cr-extract .
results none of the patients who received intra-arterial chemotherapy had liver metastasis , and this group of patients had improved survival .
conclusion a pilot study of postoperative intra-arterial chemotherapy showed the reduction of liver metastasis and improvement of survival among pancreatic cancer patients with portal vein resection .
this vaccine effectively protected mice from lethal challenges with melanoma , colon carcinoma and lung carcinoma cells and reduced growth of established metastases in a therapeutic setting .
ctl-mediated killing of endothelial cells indicated breaking of peripheral immune tolerance against this self antigen , resulting in markedly reduced dissemination of spontaneous and experimental pulmonary metastases .
angiogenesis in the tumor vasculature was suppressed without impairment of fertility , neuromuscular performance or hematopoiesis , albeit with a slight delay in wound healing .
both mutations alter the amino acid sequence of ink4a and functionally impair the protein , although they do so to different degrees .
only one of the mutations affects the sequence of arf , causing an apparently innocuous change near its carboxy terminus .
it has been reported that emergence from this growth arrest by the abrogation of p16(ink4a) , a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor , and expression of the catalytic component of human telomerase ( htert ) are necessary for hmec immortalization .
here we show that primary hmecs , grown on feeder layers , do not undergo this growth arrest and can be immortalized without abrogating p16 .
these findings support the concept that the so-called m0 stage represents a cell culture stress-induced growth arrest and that htert is sufficient to immortalize hmecs when cultured under adequate conditions .
we found that differential expression of these isoforms and of signaling proteins determined whether nkg2d functioned as a costimulatory receptor in the adaptive immune system ( cd8+ t cells ) or as both a primary recognition structure and a costimulatory receptor in the innate immune system ( natural killer cells and macrophages ) .
this strategy suggests a rationale for the multisubunit structure of stimulatory immunoreceptors .
results pdgf acted as a potent mitogen in a dose-dependent manner in two osteosarcoma cell lines .
sti571 ( 1.0 micro m ) inhibited both pdgfr-alpha and pdgfr-beta phosphorylation and the downstream phosphorylation targets extracellular signal-regulated kinase and akt .
sti571 also inhibited pdgf-mediated growth and induced apoptosis in vitro as determined by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling staining .
conclusions our data demonstrate that sti571 inhibits pdgf-mediated growth and leads to apoptosis of osteosarcoma cells in vitro by selective inhibition of the pdgfr tyrosine kinase .
unexpectedly , we observed that frequency of cells undergoing activation-induced apoptosis was markedly increased in all cultures containing onc .
the enhancement of frequency of activation-induced apoptosis ( up to 244% ) was observed at 4.2-83 nm onc concentration , which is at least an order magnitude lower than its minimal concentration reported to affect proliferation or induce apoptosis of leukemic and solid tumor cell lines .
because activation-induced apoptosis is the key mechanism regulating several in vivo immunological functions including induction of tolerance , the observed effects of onc may explain the apparent lack of immune reactions to this protein in treated patients .
the propensity of onc to potentiate the activation-induced apoptosis suggests that this drug may have clinical utility as immunomodulating agent , e.g. , to suppress transplant rejection or treat autoimmune diseases .
tumors were characterized with active mitosis , intensive lymphoid infiltration inside a knot and high rates of apoptosis , particularly in tumors obtained from rats whose mothers were fed the 15% olive-oil diet .
we conclude that exposure to various diets in utero and during lactation affects the immune system .
in addition , the promotion of apoptosis may play a key role in the mechanisms involved in the transplacental effects on mammary tumor development as seen using a 15% olive-oil diet , similar to the high fat diets of mediterranean countries .
stimulation of insulin and igf-1 receptors by insulin caused a temporary dissociation of annexin ii from these receptors , which was accompanied by an increased amount of extracellular annexin ii detected in the media of pc12 , nih-3t3(ir) , and nih-3t3(igf-1r) cells but not in that of untransfected nih-3t3 cells .
activation of a different growth factor receptor , the platelet-derived growth factor receptor , did not produce such results .
these results suggest that the insulin receptor and its signaling pathways may participate in molecular mechanisms mediating annexin ii secretion .
the detection rate of afb1-albumin adducts was significantly higher in males ( 42.5% ) than in females ( 21.6% ) ( multivariate-adjusted odds ratio=2.6 , 95% confidence interval=1.4-5.0 ) .
the formation of detectable albumin adducts was moderately higher in hepatitis b surface antigen carriers ( 42.8% ) than in non-carriers ( 36.6% ) ( multivariate-adjusted odds ratio=1.4 , 95% confidence interval=1.0-2.1 ) .
in addition , the detection rate of afb1-albumin adducts tended to increase with the increasing number of null genotypes of glutathione s-transferase m1-1 and glutathione s-transferase t1-1 .
in conclusion , this cross-sectional study has assessed the relative contributions of environmental exposure and host susceptibility factors in the formation of afb1-albumin adducts in a well characterised chinese adult population .
whereas cdk4(+/+)ink4a/arf(-/-) cells are immortal in culture , cdk4(-/-)ink4a/arf(-/-) cells undergo senescence during continuous culture , as do wild-type cells .
activated ras also induces premature senescence in cdk4(-/-)ink4a/arf(-/-) cells and cdk4(-/-) cells with dnp53 expression .
thus , cdk4 deficiency causes senescence in a unique arf/p53-independent manner , which accounts for the loss of transformation potential .
suppression of p21(cip1/waf1) by small interfering rna ( sirna ) , as well as expression of hpv-e7 oncoprotein , restores immortalization and ras-mediated transformation in cdk4(-/-)ink4a/arf(-/-) cells and cdk4(-/-) cells with dnp53 expression .
therefore , cdk4 is essential for immortalization , and suppression of cdk4 could be a prospective strategy to recruit cells with inactive arf/p53 pathway to senescence .
we found that levels of the cyclin-dependent kinase ( cdk ) inhibitor , p27 , were lower in u87mg.deltaegfr tumors than in parental u87mg or control u87mg.dk tumors .
consequently , cdk2-cyclin a activity was also elevated , concomitant with the rb protein hyperphosphorylation .
in addition , activated phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( pi3-k ) and phosphorylated akt levels were also elevated in the u87mg.deltaegfr tumors .
u87mg.deltaegfr cells failed to arrest in g(1) in response to serum starvation in vitro and while maintaining high levels of pi3-k activity and hyperphosphorylated rb .
expression of a kinase dead dominant-negative akt mutant in the u87mg.deltaegfr cells similarly resulted in up-regulation of p27 and down-regulation of tumorigenicity in vivo .
these results suggest that the constitutively active deltaegfr can enhance cell proliferation in part by down-regulation of p27 through activation of the pi3-k/akt pathway .
immediately after 41.8 degrees c wbh-ct treatment , a drastic increase in peripheral natural killer ( nk ) cells ( p&lt;0.05 ) and cd56+ cytotoxic t lymphocytes ( ctl ; p&lt;0.01 ) in the patients ' peripheral blood was observed .
this transient phenomenon was accompanied by a short period of reduced t cell activity , indicated by diminished serum levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptors ( sil-2r ) at 3 h post-wbh-ct ( p&lt;0.05 ) and decreased lymphocytic proliferation at the same point in time .
the third phase of the immunological consequences of wbh-ct consisted of an increase in the percentage of peripheral cytotoxic t lymphocytes ( ctl ) expressing cd56 , reaching a maximum at 48 h post-wbh ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
furthermore , the percentage of cd4+ t cells expressing the t cell activation marker cd69 increased nearly two-fold over time , reaching its maximum at 48 h ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
elevated intracellular concentrations of interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) and/or tnf-alpha in cd8+ t cells were found in 4 out of 5 patients at 24 h post-wbh-ct .
since similar changes were not observed in patients receiving chemotherapy alone , this is the first study to provide evidence for prolonged wbh-ct-induced activation of human t cells .
the characteristics of the 85th and 60th passage cells were weakened at contact-inhibition and anchorage-dependent growth .
the activities of telomerase were expressed in the latter three passages .
conclusion in continual cultivation of fetal esophageal epithelial cells with transduction of hpv18e(6)e(7) , cells from the 10th to the 85th passage were changed gradually from preimmortal , immortal , precancerous to malignantly transformed stages .
the two pyrimidines deoxycytidine and 5-methyldeoxycytidine yield only ce adducts to deoxynucleosides , which correspond to stable adducts on dna .
both stable adducts and deglycosylated adducts are formed , and therefore formation of stable adducts on dna as well as the loss of purines from the dna strands could be possible .
ms(2) and ms(3) experiments prove to be relevant for further structural determinations , enabling in some cases the elucidation of the regiochemistry of adduction on the a and b rings of the steroid moiety .
inhibition of hsp90 , a chaperone for many kinases , by geldanamycin or radicicol shifted the response of l929sa cells to tnf from necrosis to apoptosis .
these results suggest that hsp90 client proteins play a crucial role in necrotic signaling .
we conclude that inhibition of hsp90 may alter the composition of the tnfr1 complex , favoring the caspase-8-dependent apoptotic pathway .
in the absence of geldanamycin , certain hsp90 client proteins may be preferentially recruited to the tnfr1 complex , promoting necrosis .
thus , the availability of proteins such as receptor-interacting protein , fas-associated death domain , and caspase-8 can determine whether tnfr1 activation will lead to apoptosis or to necrosis .
the hnscc patients in our study showed a significant increase in chromosomal instability after a preterminal exposure of their lymphocytes to either blm for the last 5 h or deb for the last 24 h of incubation .
however , the ar was higher in hnscc patients than in the control group , suggesting an increase in the dna repair capacity in the cancer patients as compared to the control .
there is no correlation between the dna repair capacity estimated on the basis of preterminal exposures to blm and deb and the dna repair capacity estimated on the basis of the adaptive response to deb .
the preterminal exposure and the adaptive response test may activate different dna repair mechanisms .
these evidences imply that p21(cip1) and p27(kip1) cdk inhibitors are ' essential activators ' of cyclin d-kinases .
this mitogen-induced cyclin d1-kinase activity was blocked by overexpression of p16(ink4a) and resulted in the inhibition of s phase entry in p21/p27-null mefs .
furthermore , ectopic expression of p34(sei-1) , a mitogen-induced cdk4 binding protein , increased the levels of active cyclind1-cdk4 complex in asynchronously proliferating p21/p27-null mefs .
together , our results suggest that there are several independent ways to stimulate the assembly of cyclin d1-cdk4 kinases .
although p21(cip1) and p27(kip1) play a role in this process , our results demonstrate that additional mechanisms must occur in g0 to s phase transition .
expression of a constitutively active rho construct in a375 melanoma cells dramatically stimulated invasion through matrigel membranes ; however , a constitutively active rhoa mutated so that it cannot be geranylated , failed to stimulate invasion .
pharmacologic inhibition of rho geranylation produced similar inhibition of rho localization , signaling , and invasion .
our results suggest that inhibition of rho geranylation may be an attractive pharmacologic target for inhibiting melanoma metastasis .
we conclude that microglia immune activity may be suppressed in gliomas and directly correlates to the immunogenecity of experimental brain tumors .
in sos-induced e. coli , dg-aaf primarily induced one- and two-base deletions .
the mutational frequency varied , depending on the position modified in the nar i site ; 91% two-base deletions were observed at g(3) , while 8.4% and 2.8% deletions were detected at g(2) and g(1) , respectively .
in contrast , dg-af at any position in the nar i site failed to produce deletions , generating primarily g --&gt ; t transversions ( mutational frequency , 7.6-8.4% ) .
in cos-7 cells , both dg-aaf and dg-af primarily induced g --&gt ; t transversions .
mutation frequencies for dg-aaf were 9.4-24% , the highest values being at g(1) and g(3) .
mutation frequencies for dg-af were 9.3-21% , the higher value at g(2) .
we conclude from this study that the mutation potential of dg-aaf and dg-af depends on the structure of the adduct , the sequence context of the lesion , and the host cell used for the experiment .
there was a significant correlation between abnormal beta-catenin expression and depth of invasion(p &lt ; 0.025 ) .
moreover , abnormal beta-catenin expression was more frequent in tumors with positive lymph node metastasis ( 45/84 , 53.6% ) and distance metastasis(21/31 , 67.7% ) than in tumors without lymph node metastasis ( 19/64 , 29.7% ) ( p &lt ; 0.005 ) and distance metastasis ( 43/117 , 36.8% ) ( p &lt ; 0.005 ) .
however , ad/rasg12v-infected huvecs did not enter the s phase , as determined by assessing 3h-thymidine incorporation .
interestingly , the expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase ( cdk ) inhibitor p21cip1 was remarkably increased while that of p27kip1 did not decrease in ad/rasg12v-infected huvecs .
these results suggested that the constitutive activation of ras promoted the reentry of confluent huvecs in the g0 phase into the g1 phase , but not into the s phase .
the results also indicated that the constitutive activation of ras might have induced the persistent expression of p21cip1 and p27kip1 , and that this induction of p21cip1 and p27kip1 expression possibly caused the cell cycle arrest at the g1 phase .
compared with the parental cells and pci-neo transfected cells , ahtr-transfected cells displayed some morphological changes , such as decreased atypia , and recovery of contact inhibition and density inhibition under light microscope .
furthermore , ahtr-transfected cells displayed decreased invasive capacity in borden's chamber invasive model , increased g0/g1 phase rate and apoptotic rate .
we identified redd1 as a novel transcriptional target of p53 induced following dna damage .
redd1 appears to function in the regulation of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) ; we show that tp63 null fibroblasts have decreased ros levels and reduced sensitivity to oxidative stress , which are both increased following ectopic expression of either tp63 or redd1 .
thus , redd1 encodes a shared transcriptional target that implicates ros in the p53-dependent dna damage response and in p63-mediated regulation of epithelial differentiation .
plasma igg levels decreased with increasing tcdd plasma concentration ( r = -0.35 , p = 0.0002 ) .
median igg concentration decreased from 1,526 mg/dl in the group with the lowest ( &lt ; 3.5 ppt ) tcdd levels to 1,163 mg/dl in the group with the highest ( 20.1-89.9 ppt ) tcdd levels ( p = 0.002 ) .
the possible long-term immunologic effects of tcdd exhibited by the participants of the present study , coupled with the increased incidence of lymphatic tumors in the area of the accident , warrant further investigation .
here we report that bub2 protein also has cell cycle regulated phosphorylation .
thus like bfa1 , bub2 protein is also controlled both during mitotic exit and in response to cell cycle checkpoints .
isomeric adducts were differentiated using tandem mass spectrometry , and energy resolved mass spectrometry allowed to underline differences in the behavior of the adducts towards collisional excitation into an ion trap device .
when cell lines were studied in an organ culture model , anti-sense clones were highly invasive compared with vector controls and sense transfectants .
in vector controls , invasiveness was reproduced by ligand-dependent ep(2) receptor down-regulation as assessed by immunohistochemistry .
in addition , loss of ep(2) receptor expression was associated with decreased paxillin expression , a critical component of focal adhesion assembly .
five nucleotide substitutions and one single-base deletion were detected in introns 1 , 2 , and 3 and in the 3 ' untranslated region .
moreover , acquired mutations in class i beta-tubulin are unlikely to be a clinically relevant cause of drug resistance .
we found that genistein regulated the expression of genes that are critically involved in the regulation of cell growth , cell cycle , apoptosis , cell signaling transduction , angiogenesis , tumor cell invasion and metastasis .
these results postulate that gamma irradiation induces the polarized-th2 response and interferes with stat1 signals , thereby causing the immunosuppression of the th1 response .
differences between these preparations were observed , including : nt-apo2l/trail induced less keratinocyte apoptosis compared with lz-apo2l/trail ; nt-apo2l/trail also induced less apoptosis of hacat cells compared with lz-apo2l/trail ; lz-apo2l/trail but not nt-apo2l/trail induced cytotoxic effects when keratinocytes became growth arrested due to undergoing spontaneous replicative senescence--a biological state previously observed to be resistant to uv-light-induced apoptosis .
similarities between preparations included : an enhanced ability for both apo2l/trail preparations to kill a greater relative percentage of hacat cells compared with keratinocytes ; enhanced cytotoxicity towards keratinocytes that had their nf-b activity inhibited ; a dependence of both apo2l/trail preparations on fadd and caspase activation ; triggering of the same caspase cascades including caspase 8 and 3 ; and an ability to induce apoptosis even when hacat cells and keratinocytes were transduced to overexpress either bcl-2 or bcl-x(l) ( survival factors that reduce susceptibility to uv-light-induced apoptosis ) .
these results indicate that while both preparations of apo2l/trail possess biological activity , there are important differences as regards their ability to induce apoptosis in normal and immortalized keratinocytes .
moreover , the death receptor pathway triggered by lz-apo2l/trail can overcome the apoptotic resistance normally observed in response to uv-light mediated by bcl-2/bcl-x(l) , as well as by the state of cellular senescence .
unraveling the molecular basis for these differential biological effects may reveal a new strategic role for these death receptor/ligands linked to apoptosis in maintaining the dynamic balance of keratinocyte proliferation , differentiation , and cell death necessary to achieve a homeostatic thickness and function of normal skin .
in addition , it may be possible to utilize these apo2l/trail preparations for the treatment of various sun-induced skin cancers as they can differentially trigger apoptosis of transformed keratinocytes , or keratinocytes with abnormal nf-kappab signaling , while sparing adjacent normal keratinocytes .
on the other hand , using ( r)-hne-modified and ( s)-hne-modified keyhole limpet hemocyanins as the antigens , we raised the monoclonal antibodies , mabr310 and mabs412 , which enantioselectively recognized the ( r)-hne-histidine and ( s)-hne-histidine adducts , respectively .
we demonstrate here , however , that the promoter regions for the p53 target genes , p21 , 14-3-3sigma , and karp-1 , exist in a constitutively open conformation that is readily accessible to dnase i. this conformation was not altered by dna damage or by whether p53 was present or absent in the cell .
the secondary induction of tnf or the other known bona fide death inducing ligands did not account for death following ltbeta receptor activation indicating that tnf family receptors can trigger a caspase-independent death pathway regardless of the presence of canonical death domains in the receptor .
the death of ht29 and u937 cells under these conditions is an intermediate form with both necrotic and apoptotic features .
taxotere was active in all three assays at concentrations that were not cytotoxic and did not inhibit endothelial cell proliferation .
in the rfpec chemokinetic migration and in vitro tubule formation assays , the ic50 values were approximately 10(-9) m for both taxotere and taxol .
in this assay , the angiogenic response to fibroblast growth factor 2 was inhibited in vivo by taxotere with an id50 of 5.4 mg/kg when injected twice weekly over a 14-day period , and angiogenesis was completely blocked in mice that received 10 mg/kg taxotere .
the in vivo data further suggested that taxotere had selectivity for endothelial cell migration and/or microvessel formation because infiltration of inflammatory cells into the matrigel plug was much less sensitive to inhibition by taxotere .
in conclusion , taxotere is a potent and potentially specific inhibitor of endothelial cell migration in vitro and angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo .
low zinc inhibited cell growth of rat glioma c6 cells and increased oxidative stress .
low intracellular zinc increased dna single-strand breaks ( comet assay ) .
zinc-deficient c6 cells also exhibited an increase in the expression of the zinc-containing dna-repair proteins p53 and apurinic endonuclease ( ape ) .
repletion with zinc restored cell growth and reversed dna damage .
thus , low intracellular zinc status causes oxidative dna damage and induces dna-repair protein expression , but binding of p53 and important downstream signals leading to proper dna repair are lost without zinc .
moderate ( 250 mg/kg/day ) and high ( 500 mg/kg/day ) pb treatment resulted in a decrease in proliferation in mammary epithelial cells ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) , determined by bromodeoxyuridine incorporation .
analysis of er alpha immunostaining revealed a significant reduction in moderate- and high-treatment groups ( p = 0.01 and p = 0.02 ) , and expression of cyclin d1 was virtually ablated ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
in summary , pb decreased proliferation in the mammary gland in vivo at clinically achievable doses .
decreased proliferation was accompanied by changes in the levels of er alpha and cyclin d1 .
results both in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry showed the presence of vegf expression within the neuroblastoma cells .
we found vegf mrna in neuroblastoma cells but not vascular endothelial cells according to in situ hybridization .
the level of vegf expression was higher in unfavorable histology , using the criteria of shimada , than in favorable histology .
conclusion the authors suggest that paracrine and autocrine systems are involved in the angiogenesis of neuroblastoma , and the expression of vegf correlates with the prognosis in neuroblastoma .
univariate analysis showed that location of tumor , tumor diameter , and lymph node metastasis influenced prognosis , but there was no prognostic factor in the cox proportional regression hazard model .
the results show a good linear relation between dna damage and radiation dose , for both single-strand and double-strand breaks .
heterogeneity in dna damage within the cell population was observed as a function of radiation dose .
repair kinetics showed that most of the damage was repaired within 2 h after irradiation , and that the highest rejoining rate occurred with the highest dose ( 10 gy ) .
single-strand breaks were completely repaired 24 h after irradiation , whereas residual double-strand breaks were still present .
although the mechanisms by which lactic acid bacteria enhance the immune system are not clear , this study clearly shows that bioactive compounds released in fermented milks contribute to the immunoenhancing and antitumor properties of these products .
the release of bioactive peptides by lactic acid bacteria can have important implications on the modulation of the cellular immune response .
in contrasts , dna adduct analysis by means of ( 32)p-postlabeling showed similar adduct patterns for s9 and phs in single-stranded and double-stranded salmon testes dna after incubation with phip , indicating the ultimate formation of a common reactive intermediate .
for iq , activation by phs led to an additional adduct spot that was not present after s9 activation .
furthermore , activation of iq resulted in higher adduct levels compared with phip for both activation pathways .
overall , adduct levels were higher in single-stranded dna than double-stranded dna .
the mean mf in the lacz gene was increased 2-fold in mice treated with a single 6 mg/kg body weight dose of cisplatin and sacrificed after 17 and 28 days ( p = 0.001 and p &lt ; 0.0001 ) .
restriction analysis and sequencing of mutant dna showed that cisplatin was able to induce both large deletions and point mutations .
a specific profile of base substitution and frameshift mutations was identified in treated mice , consisting primarily of g:c--&gt;a:t transitions at gpg and apg sites , the preferential dna binding sites of cisplatin , and single basepair deletions/insertions .
the present results provide the first evidence that cisplatin has mutagenic activity in vivo and induces a characteristic pattern of mutations in the mouse liver .
this mutagenicity may be responsible for its tumorigenic activity .
because migration is necessary for the antitumor activity of monocytes/macrophages , these deficits may contribute to the suppressed immune system seen in cancer patients .
the colon carcinoma cell line cc531 is metastatic to liver after splenic injection in syngeneic rats .
after repeated in vivo passages , a subline was selected that produced liver metastases at a considerably higher rate than the original cell line .
these cells were characterized by increased intracellular glutathione , proliferation and ability to restore glutathione after exposure to oxidative stress , thus indicating an elevated resistance to oxidative stress .
furthermore , the increased metastatic ability was also accompanied by increased proliferation rate , adhesion to extracellular matrix proteins and endothelial cells , and secretion of a 60 kd matrix metalloproteinase .
when cultured in vitro for a prolonged time ( more than 30 trypsinizations ) , the cells showed a reduced in vivo metastatic ability , reduced secretion of three metalloproteinases including the 60 kd proteinase , and reduced intracellular glutathione .
these results indicate that metastatic ability can be influenced through several adaptive mechanisms , and that the cell's ability to resist oxidative stress and maintain intracellular glutathione are of central importance .
we found sparc to be critical for the antiangiogenic phenotype of cultured schwann cells .
we also show that purified sparc potently inhibits angiogenesis and significantly impairs nb tumor growth in vivo .
conclusion dna strand breakage can be detected sensitively in the gene level by rdpcr .
here , we report that oligodeoxynucleotides containing 1,n(2)-deoxyguanosine adducts of acrolein , crotonaldehyde , and trans-4-hydroxynonenal can form cross-links with the tetrapeptide lys-trp-lys-lys .
we concluded that complex formation is mediated by a schiff base linkage because dna-peptide complexes were covalently trapped following reduction with sodium cyanoborohydride , and pre-reduction of adducted dnas inhibited complex formation .
consistent with this earlier observation , the adducts under investigation were more reactive in duplex dna than in single-stranded dna , and we concluded that the ring-open aldehydic moiety is the induced tautomer in duplex dna for adducts exhibiting high relative reactivity .
adducted dna cross-linked to arg-trp-arg-arg and lys-trp-lys-lys with comparable efficiency , and n(alpha)-acetylation of peptides dramatically inhibited trapping ; thus , the reactive nucleophile is located at the n-terminal alpha-amine of the peptide .
these data suggest that schiff base chemistry can mediate dpc formation in vivo following the formation of stable aldehyde-derived dna adducts .
in vitro , rofecoxib decreased gene expression of cyclin d1/prad1 , a key component of cell cycle progression , while increasing expression of several cell cycle arrest genes , including p21/waf1 , p33/ing , gadd34 , and gadd45 ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
these data suggest that rofecoxib slows the growth of human pancreatic cancer through changes in gene expression that favor cell cycle arrest .
in order to study dna damage recognition and the abnormalities of genome instability and cancer predisposition that occur in a-t patients , we generated a mouse model expressing a mutant form of atm corresponding to a common human mutation .
in this model , a 9 nucleotide in-frame deletion was introduced into the atm gene and has been designated atm-delta sri .
a characteristic of the lymphomas appearing in atm-delta sri mice was an increased rate of apoptosis compared to the corresponding tumours in atm(-/-) mice .
increased expression of fasl in these tumours may account for the higher levels of apoptosis .
in a short-term study ( for 4 weeks after surgery ) , dietary administration of both sulindac ( 300 and 600 p.p.m. ) and ndga ( 100 p.p.m. ) effectively reduced the egda-induced inflammation .
all of seven fibroblast cell lines immortalized either spontaneously or by ( 60)co , x-rays , 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide or aflatoxin b(1) , maintaining their telomeres by the alt ( alternative lengthening of telomeres ) pathway , displayed loss of expression of p16(ink4a) and hyperphosphorylation of prb .
two fibroblast cell lines that became immortalized following infection with a retrovirus vector encoding human telomerase catalytic subunit ( htert ) cdna were also accompanied by inactivation of p16(ink4a) and prb pathways .
acquisition of telomerase activity alone was not sufficient for immortalization of these cell lines .
these demonstrate the association of inactivation of both p16(ink4a) and prb with immortalization of human cells including fibroblasts and epithelial cells and telomerase-positive cells and alt-positive cells .
it was proved that nuclear factor-kappa b play an important role in the activation of immune cell , anti-virus , various stress reaction , and regulation of apoptosis , etc .
we established that the carboxy-terminal 125 amino acids are dispensable for both hr23b and damaged dna binding , while interactions with transcription factor iih ( tfiih ) are significantly impaired by truncation of this domain .
these results suggest that following initial damage recognition , the carboxy terminus of xpc may be essential for the recruitment of tfiih , and that most truncation mutations identified in xp-c patients result in non-functional proteins .
in mammalian cells , alkyladenine dna alkyladenine glycosylase ( aag ) is the major enzyme required for the repair of these lesions via ber , and their removal from the total genome is quite rapid .
there is no observable tcr of these lesions in specific genes in dna repair proficient cells ; however , it is possible that the rapid repair of these adducts by ber masks any tcr .
the results show that both 3mea and 7meg are removed without strand bias from the dhfr gene of ber deficient ( aag deficient ) and ner deficient murine cell lines .
furthermore , repair of 3mea in this region is highly dependent on aag , but repair of 7meg is equally efficient in the repair proficient , ber deficient , and ner deficient cell lines .
strikingly , in the absence of both ber and ner , neither 7meg nor 3mea is repaired .
these results demonstrate that ner , but not tcr , contributes to the repair of 7meg , and to a lesser extent 3mea .
we find that the 5'-3 ' resection defects in vivo do not correlate with several mitotic phenotypes : non-homologous end-joining ( nhej ) , telomere length maintenance , and adaptation to the dna damage-inducible g2/m checkpoint .
overexpression of the 5'-3 ' exonuclease exo1p in a mre11delta strain partially increased 5'-3 ' resection and partially suppressed both methyl methanesulfonate ( mms ) hypersensitivity and adaptation phenotypes , but did not affect telomere length or nhej .
the results indicated that both agents showed concentration-dependent and time-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation. 5-aza-cdr and cdaii induced apoptosis and cell differentiation with g(2) and g(0)/g(1) arrest respectively .
morphological changes of apoptotic cells were observed with microscopy and wright's + giemsa staining .
results showed that mtx could induce u937 cell apoptosis effectively .
condensed nuclei , fragmentation of chromosome and dna ladder were seen after 6 hour following treatment of mtx 5 micro mol/l .
in conclusion , u937 cell apoptosis induced by mtx did not change p73 mrna level .
no from donor drugs induced both ataxia-telangiectasia mutated ( atm)- and ataxia-telangiectasia mutated and rad3-related-dependent p53 posttranslational modifications , leading to an increase in p53 transcriptional targets and a g(2)m cell cycle checkpoint .
our study highlights a pivotal role of no in the induction of cellular stress and the activation of a p53 response pathway during chronic inflammation .
in the animal experiment , both the acc-m and amgcen cells stimulated lung metastasis in all the mice , whereas there was no tumour found in the 1 x 10(6) amil-2 cells inoculation .
the il-2 gene can be a potential effective gene for the treatment of adenoid cystic carcinoma of salivary glands and its lung metastasis .
somatic nf1 mutations were also detected in two primary tumors exhibiting an msi phenotype .
these observations demonstrate that the nf1 gene is a mutational target of mmr deficiency and suggest that its inactivation is an important step of the malignant progression of mmr-deficient cells .
results showed that 10(-5) m of ril-16 treatment induced an enhanced apoptosis in jurkat cells .
the treatment blocked the expression of fasl , but up-regulated the c-myc and bid expression in the cells .
the results suggested that the ril-16 might be a regulator for the growth or apoptosis of jurkat cells at a dose-dependent manner .
the triterpenoid fraction ( 100 and 200 mg/kg ) of the fruit bodies of ganoderma lucidum inhibited primary solid-tumor growth in the spleen , liver metastasis and secondary metastatic tumor growth in the liver in intrasplenic lewis lung carcinoma ( llc)-implanted mice .
in addition , the triterpenoid fraction ( 800 micrograms/ml ) inhibited angiogenesis induced by matrigel ( a soluble basement membrane extract of the engelbreth-holm-swam ( ehs ) tumor ) supplemented with vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) and heparin in an in vivo model .
this suggested that the antitumor and antimetastatic activities of the triterpenoid fraction of g. lucidum might be due to the inhibition of tumor-induced angiogenesis .
the acidic fraction of the triterpenoid fraction inhibited the matrigel-induced angiogenesis .
compound i was isolated from the acidic fraction as an active substance that inhibited the martigel-induced angiogenesis .
here , we demonstrate that sulforaphane arrested cell cycle progression in g , phase , through a decrease in the protein expression of cyclin d3 .
moreover , sulforaphane induced apoptosis ( and also necrosis ) , mediated by an increase in the expression of p53 .
persistent cytogenetic damage was observed exclusively in all 6 in-utero-exposed offspring , but not in their 12 match non-in-utero-exposed controls .
the study characterizes egme as a human teratogen , as indicated by the prevalence of characteristic dysmorphic features and persistent cytogenetic damage in individuals exposed in utero to this chemical .
for both adducts the majority of -1 frameshifts occurred in a ttt sequence 3-5 bp upstream of the dna lesion .
for pol eta , all of the bypass products for both cisplatin and oxaliplatin adducts contained -1 frameshifts in the upstream ttt sequence and most of the products of replication on oxaliplatin-damaged templates had multiple replication errors , both frameshifts and misinsertions .
the majority of short cisplatin-induced products contained an internal deletion which included the adduct .
in contrast , the majority of oxaliplatin-induced short products contained a 3 ' terminal deletion .
the implications of these in vitro results for in vivo mutagenesis are discussed .
we conclude that the predisposition of msh2 mice to uvb radiation-induced skin cancer reflects an interaction between the processes of mismatch repair and some other excision repair mode , the exact nature of which remains to be established .
we found that ato ( &lt ; or = 5 microm ) caused prolongation of g1/s and g2/m phase in a dose-dependent manner .
the percentage of cells in g2/m increased significantly ( from 8.6 to 53.8% ) .
high-dose ato ( &gt ; or = 25 microm ) caused non-specific cell death in hl60 cells without any changes in cell cycle .
in contrast to hl60 cells , ucb cd34+ cells were more resistant to high-dose ato and most ato-resistant cd34+ cells remained in g0/g1 phase .
our results suggest that the resistance to ato in primitive ucb cd34+ cells is most likely related to its cell-cycle status .
lavage fluid analysis indicated an inflammatory response in the lung that was either directly mediated by vanadium pentoxide or was secondary to lung damage induced by vanadium pentoxide exposure. 16-day study in mice : groups of five male and five female mice were exposed to particulate aerosols of vanadium pentoxide at concentrations of 0 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , or 32 mg/m(3) by inhalation , 6 hours per day , 5 days per week for 16 days .
lavage fluid analysis indicated an inflammatory response in the lung that was either directly mediated by vanadium pentoxide or was secondary to lung damage induced by vanadium pentoxide exposure. 3-month study in rats : groups of 10 male and 10 female rats were exposed to particulate aerosols of vanadium pentoxide at concentrations of 0 , 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , or 16 mg/m(3) by inhalation , 6 hours per day , 5 days per week for 3 months .
our data showed that cd4 and cd8 subset distribution was not grossly altered in the peripheral blood of ucnt patients , while tumor biopsies contained an increased proportion of cd8(+) t cells .
the analysis of the cd4(+) subset showed a defect in interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) production and a moderate increase of il-10 production , a situation consistent with a th1/th2 imbalance .
we have also demonstrated that cd8(+) lymphocytes from ucnt patients had a marked impairment of ifn-gamma secretion and perforin expression .
cgma identified 13 regions of frequent cytogenetic change in the hcc samples .
in addition , cgma might be useful for identifying candidate genes within cytogenetically abnormal regions .
results there were no significant differences in cumulative survival rates between patients given adrenalectomy and those given tace or peit , either after completing treatment for primary hcc or after the first treatment for adrenal metastasis .
six of seven patients with tumor thrombi in the inferior vena cava ( ivc ) from adrenal metastasis underwent adrenalectomy combined with intracaval thrombectomy , five of whom survived for more than 1 year after surgery , and two of whom are still alive without any recurrence more than 3 years after surgery .
peit showed good results for small adrenal metastasis .
conclusion these findings suggest that therapeutic modalities should be chosen according to the clinical features of each individual , including the size of the metastatic tumor , whether there is invasion into the ivc , the function of the remaining liver , and the existence of intra- and/or nonadrenal extrahepatic lesions .
here we show that plk3 is rapidly activated by reactive oxygen species in normal diploid fibroblast cells ( wi-38 ) , correlating with a subsequent increase in p53 protein level .
plk3 physically interacts with chk2 and the interaction is enhanced upon dna damage .
in addition , chk2 immunoprecipitated from cell lysates of daudi ( which expressed little plk3 ) is capable of stimulating the kinase activity of purified recombinant plk3 in vitro , and this stimulation is more pronounced when plk3 is supplemented with chk2 immunoprecipitated from daudi after dna damage .
furthermore , ectopic expression chk2 activates cellular plk3 .
together , our studies suggest chk2 may mediate direct activation of plk3 in response to genotoxic stresses .
the resulting cells grown in a serum-free medium containing endothelial cell growth supplement ( ecgs ) have a telomerase activity , extended life spans of at least 21 passages , and an endothelial cell phenotype ( dii-acetylated-ldl upake , factor viii-related antigen , vegfr-1 and r-2 , and tissue-type plasminogen activator ( tpa) ) that resembled that of unaltered primary endothelial cells .
exceptions were ( i ) a higher expression of tpa , and ( ii ) a non-significant growth response to fgf-2 or vegf stimulation .
both cell types produced fgf-2 and vegf cytokines .
increasing doses of suramin significantly decreased the size of microvessels formed by both cell lines .
these functional results indicate that a vascular matrix system containing human cells with extended life spans can be successfully utilized as an in vitro assay for antiangiogenic compounds .
dexamethasone ( dex ) inhibited the proliferation of dunn os cells in a dose-dependent manner , while the addition of anti-gc , ru486 , to the culture medium in part recovered dex-induced growth inhibition .
the number of maximum binding sites ( bmax ) and the dissociation constant ( kd ) value of glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) in dunn os cells were 19,560 sites/cell and 5.2 +/- 0.8 nm , respectively .
dex treatment of dunn os cells resulted in apoptosis with the characteristic internucleosomal dna cleavage shown by the dna ladder pattern in agarose gel electrophoresis .
these data demonstrate that gc inhibits the proliferation of dunn os cells via gr , for which one possible mechanism in vitro is induction of apoptosis .
coexpression of uba3 with eralpha increased receptor degradation by the 26s proteasome .
inhibition of nedd8 activation and conjugation diminished polyubiquitination of eralpha and blocked proteasome-mediated degradation of receptor protein .
this study provides the first evidence linking nuclear receptor degradation with the nedd8 pathway and the ubiquitin-proteasome system , suggesting that the two pathways can act together to modulate eralpha turnover and cellular responses to estrogens .
based on our observation that an intact nedd8 pathway is essential for the antiproliferation activity of the ici 182,780 in eralpha positive breast cancer cells , we propose that disruptions in the nedd8 pathway provide a mechanism by which breast cancer cells acquire antiestrogen resistance while retaining expression of eralpha .
dna strand-break induction was the same for both cell lines , while only at very high doses did a2780cp show greater dna strand-break recovery than a2780s .
conclusion the difference in radiosensitivity between these two cell lines was not related to recovery of pld or sld or to the induction of dna damage .
oxidative stress proved to inhibit cell division and to induce apoptosis .
seven-day leukemia cells feature lower proliferative potential and higher sensitivity to oxidative stress and platidiam .
flow cytometry analysis showed that tea polyphenols and tea pigments induced g1 arrest .
western blot analysis showed tea polyphenols and tea pigments significantly inhibited the expression of cyclin d1 protein and induced higher expression of p21wafi/cipi protein .
the result of rt-pcr analysis demonstrated that cdk4 was significantly inhibited by tea polyphenols and tea pigments .
it is concluded that the induction of cell cycle arrest may be an important mechanism of tea on cancer prevention .
in 23 patients , the predominant operative finding was hemorrhage with or without necrosis .
there was no evidence that beta-carotene , lutein , or beta-cryptoxanthin supplementation protected cellular dna from oxidation under basal conditions or after oxidative challenge .
however , only carotenoid-supplemented cells exhibited a significant decrease in numbers of ssb over a 2-h period after treatment with h2o2 .
carotenoid supplementation did not provoke any detectable change in repair patch synthesis activity .
we conclude that supplementation with carotenoids at 8 mumol/l does not provide significant antioxidant protection for dna in molt-17 lymphocytes but may enhance recovery of cells from oxidative challenge , as measured by loss of ssb .
we argue that these data are most consistent with carotenoids acting to enhance dna strand break repair .
among the 17 patients with low-grade b-cell nhl , results for 7 were positive for vegf stain ( 41.2% ) , and results were negative for all other stains for vegf receptors , bfgf , and bfgf receptors .
in the 10 patients with intermediate-grade b-cell nhl and t-cell lymphoma , all vegf staining was positive ( 100% ) , but bfgf staining was only weakly positive in 2 .
staining results for seven patients who had low-grade b-cell nhl with higher grade transformation showed that vegf staining was positive in large lymphoid cells of 5 patients and in small lymphoid cells of one patient .
staining for the receptors vegfr-1 and vegfr-2 was positive in large lymphoid cells in four and two cases , respectively .
staining for bfgf was positive in two cases of large lymphoid cells .
we concluded that vegf , but not bfgf , was associated with higher tumor grading of nhl and high-grade transformation of low-grade lymphoma .
treatment with ifn-alpha resulted in a shift from immunosuppression--documented for the group of untreated patients--to immunopotentiation , with an increase of t-cell ifn-gamma production ( p = 0.0266 ) .
here , we demonstrate the use of a noncatalytic fragment of matrix metalloproteinase 2 ( termed pex ) delivered by lentiviral vectors in different angiogenesis models .
transduction of human endothelial cells with pex virus suppressed endothelial invasion and formation of capillary-like structures without affecting chemotaxis in vitro .
lentiviral delivery of pex blocked basic fibroblast growth factor-induced matrix metalloproteinase 2 activation and angiogenesis on chicken chorioallantoic membranes .
pex expression also inhibited tumor-induced angiogenesis and tumor growth in a nude mouse model .
cell proliferation assays using elisa revealed that overnight incubation with 5-10 micro m tamoxifen inhibited cell proliferation by 20% , and 20 micro m tamoxifen killed all cells .
the action of tamoxifen appears to be dissociated from estrogen receptor activation .
genes that were overexpressed in om3 included oncogenes , cell cycle regulators , and those involved in signal transduction , whereas genes for dna repair enzymes and inhibitors of transformation and metastasis were suppressed .
in arsenic-treated cells , multiple dna repair proteins were overexpressed .
most of the cis-platinum(ii) isomers caused significant alteration of cell cycle phases progression , and induced apoptosis in degree that varied among different compounds , as evaluated using flowcytometry and morphological study .
dna adduct levels of the 0.1% udca , 0.1% dca and controls were 2.93 ( adducts/10(7) nucleotides ) , 2.65 and 1.10 , respectively .
the phip-dna adduct level was significantly increased by administration of 0.1% udca , 0.1% dca ( p&lt;0.05 ) and 0.4% udca ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
the increasing effect of both dca and udca on phip-induced dna adduct formation was unexpected , and was not directly associated with acf formation .
in pancreatitis tissue , a significant increase in igf-i and igfbp-3 content was accompanied by a distinct increase in igf-i receptor expression , compared to control pancreas tissue .
pancreatic cancer tissue and serum of patients with pancreatic cancer showed significant increases in igf-i , igfbp-3 and igfbp-1 content , accompanied by dramatic increases in igf-i tissue receptor expression , compared to controls .
the results show that cyclin d1 is unaffected in all investigated cells .
however , casodex does not induce classical dna fragmentation to oligonucleosomes typically induced by tnf-alpha , but rather induces cleavage to form intermediate 60 kb dna fragments .
in a small percentage of the treated lncap cells , the activation of the extracellular matrix ( ecm)-proteases by casodex also induces an invasive phenotype .
the acquisition of an invasive phenotype is not seen when lncap cells are treated with tnf-alpha , and is not seen when the lncap cells are treated with both compounds simultaneously , suggesting that the phenomenon may be specific to particular classes of compounds .
it was found that the 8-ohdg level in non-tumourous liver tissue was significantly higher than in hcc tissue ( p = 0.006 ) , and this was correlated with the degree of inflammation .
our findings suggested a reactive rather than pathogenic role of the dna repair enzymes in the hepatocarcinogenesis .
results six conversions ( 8.1% ) were necessary : 2 for tumor invasion of adjacent organs , 2 for limited margin resection in lower rectal tumors , 1 for small bowel injury and 1 for obesity .
two port site metastasis ( 2.6% ) were seen in locally advanced carcinoma .
it is demonstrated that the mei-41 gene is a homologue of the human atm gene which is responsible for a cell cycle checkpoint .
this result suggests that 310-320 nm-light induces dna damage that is subject to nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) and that 330-360 nm-light causes damage to be recognized by the cell cycle checkpoint but it is not repairable by ner .
the two cationic molecules mp059 and mp072 recognise preferentially sequences containing gpt.apc and tpg.cpa steps but they do not inhibit topoisomerase i , in contrast to the parent uncharged derivative mp024 which stimulates dna single strand breaks by topoisomerase i. the cytotoxic activity of the indolocarbazole derivatives bearing positively charged groups is one order of magnitude higher than that of the neutral compound mp024 .
considering the critical importance of the erk-1/2 signal transduction pathway not only in meningiomas but in other human neoplasms , the interruption of signaling through this evolutionarily conserved pathway might be one of the mechanisms by which akba induces suppression of proliferation and apoptosis of different tumor types .
all the three tea extracts at 1 and 2% concentration did not increase the frequency of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes ( mpe ) in bone marrow cells of mice when administered individually .
the tea extracts decreased the micronuclei ( mn ) induced by cp .
at the same time , curcumin had no effect on progress of cell cycle in primaty acute myelogenous leukemia at newly diagnosis , but could increase the peak of sub-g1 ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) , and down-regulate the expression of mcl-1 and up-regulate the expression of bax and bak with the difference being statistically significant .
the expression of p27kipl , p21wafl and prbp- were elevated and that of cyclin d3 decreased in the presence of curcumin .
these findings suggested that the bcl-2 gene family indeed participated in the regulatory process of apoptosis induced by curcumin in hl-60 cells and aml cells .
curcumin can induce apoptosis of primary acute myelogenous leukemic cells and disturb cell cycle progression of hl-60 cells .
the mechanism appeared to be mediated by perturbing g0/g1 phases checkpoints which associated with up-regulation of p27kipl , p21wafl and prbp- expression , and down-regulation of cyclin d3 .
ad-p53 could induce apoptosis of partial ej cells .
g1 arrest was observed 72 h after infection with ad-p16 , but apoptosis was not obvious .
the transfer of ad-p16 and ad-p53 could significantly inhibit the growth of ej cells , decrease the cloning formation rate and induce apoptosis of large number of ej cells .
expressions of egf-r and c-erbb-2 oncoprotein were viewed in breast and cervical cancer tissues by immunochemical staining .
cervical cancer cases showed much higher expression of egf-r which also revealed significant association with the expression of c-erbb-2 oncoprotein and tumour grading .
among breast cancer cases , over-expression of egf-r correlated significantly with metastasis of lymph node ; and expression of c-erbb-2 oncoprotein showed a significant relationship with histological grading of the tumour .
these results suggest that hcc cells producing tgf-beta1 may reduce the generation or activation of cytotoxic t lymphocytes ( ctl ) and natural killer ( nk ) cells , and thus could enhance their ability to escape immune-mediated surveillance .
the mitogenic effect of conditioned medium derived from activated monocytes is due to the presence of b-fgf , vegf and il-8 .
neutralizing antibodies against b-fgf , vegf and il-8 partially reversed the mitogenic effect of conditioned medium derived from activated monocytes .
when b-fgf , vegf and il-8 were immunoprecipitated from conditioned medium derived from activated monocytes , it is less mitogenic to endothelial cells .
we have found that emodin induces apoptotic responses in the human hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines ( hcc ) mahlavu , plc/prf/5 and hepg2 .
emodin generated reactive oxygen species ( ros ) in these cells which brought about a reduction of the intracellular mitochondrial transmembrane potential ( deltapsim ) , followed by the activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3 , leading to dna fragmentation and apoptosis .
our findings demonstrate that ros and the resulting oxidative stress play a pivotal role in apoptosis .
preincubation of hepatoma cell lines with the hydrogen peroxide-scavenging enzyme , catalase ( cat ) and cyclosporin a ( csa ) , partially inhibited apoptosis .
these results demonstrate that enhancement of generation of ros , deltapsim disruption and caspase activation may be involved in the apoptotic pathway induced by emodin .
in situ cell proliferation and in situ apoptosis were also estimated using brdu incorporation and the tunel method , respectively .
significant decrease in proliferation and increase in apoptosis suggest a possible interplay between the two processes resulting in inhibition of colon carcinogenesis by black tea .
using electron microscopy technique cells carrying three kinds of morphological changes were detected : necrotic cells , apoptotic cells and those demonstrating a co-existence of apoptotic and necrotic features in one single cell .
in the resveratrol-treated cells , induction of apoptosis was confirmed by annexin v-based analyses and morphological changes .
the most surprising observation was that resveratrol treatment resulted in a gradual decrease in the expression of survivin , an antiapoptotic protein , during cell apoptosis .
these findings indicate that resveratrol inhibits the growth of human t cell lymphotrophic virus-1-infected cell lines , at least in part , by inducing apoptosis mediated by downregulation in survivin expression .
although the dna ploidy of tumor cells was not significantly different between the two groups before treatment , both the labeling index with brdu and the proliferation index with flow cytometry significantly increased 24 hours after treatment in responding tumors but not in nonresponding tumors .
however , sv40 t antigen expression was not essential for immortalization , since neither t antigen nor g418 resistance was detected in the isolated cell lines and co-culture with non-producing 3t3 cells gave similar results .
we report here aberration and chromosome number studies of twenty-nine t antigen positive lineages , studied from their initiation by transfection of t antigen sequences into human diploid fibroblasts , until crisis or immortalization occurred or , in some cases until the lines became tumorigenic in nude mice .
the data show that t antigen consistently produced chromosomal instability of both number and structure by an active process that began before transformation indicators were positive and continued throughout neoplastic progression .
these data are consistent with the hypothesis that t antigen causes human fibroblasts to become neoplastically transformed by successive rounds of chromosomal mutation and lineage evolution .
both atypical and classical basal cell hyperplasia were frequently infiltrated by lymphocytes such that the cytologic changes could not be attributable to inflammation .
the fibroblasts from normal tissue completed 12 passages in a cm-independent way prior to senescence whereas fibroblasts from tumour stroma senescence were attained after 48 passages .
in 10 ductal breast carcinomas , a direct correlation between tsp-1 and vascularity was found in 4 tumours , no correlation in 3 and an inverse correlation in 3 .
tsp-1 stimulated cell migration at low concentrations ( 0.1-10 microg/ml ) and was inhibitory at high concentrations ( 25-100 microg/ml ) .
these results suggest that tsp-1 may elicit a concentration-dependent , bi-phasic , effect on angiogenesis .
human recombinant il-8 was potently angiogenic when implanted in the rat cornea and induced proliferation and chemotaxis of human umbilical vein endothelial cells .
angiogenic activity present in the conditioned media of inflamed human rheumatoid synovial tissue macrophages or lipopolysaccharide-stimulated blood monocytes was equally blocked by antibodies to either il-8 or tumor necrosis factor-alpha .
an il-8 antisense oligonucleotide specifically blocked the production of monocyte-induced angiogenic activity .
these data suggest a function for macrophage-derived il-8 in angiogenesis-dependent disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis , tumor growth , and wound repair .
incubation of blm-treated cells with dcf/dado resulted in significant inhibition of the repair of blm-induced dna ssb .
however , an additive , but not a synergistic , increase in cell kill was observed when cells were treated with a combination of blm plus dcf/dado .
characterization of hs-w and hs-r cells in vitro showed similar proliferation rates and production of the angiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) .
analyzes of anti-angiogenic factors showed comparable levels of angiostatin and thrombospondin 1 and 2 , but endostatin was only detected in conditioned media of hs-w cells and was absent in hs-r .
cell proliferation was similar in both tumor types in vivo , whereas hs-w tumors demonstrated increased apoptosis with a high percentage of apoptotic endothelial cells ( ec ) .
collectively , our study confirms that tumor growth is dependent on its ability to increase the angiogenic stimulus or to reduce the amounts of endogenous anti-angiogenic factors .
by cell cycle analysis , the accumulation in late s-g2m phase was confirmed on k562/adm cells , treated with 1.0 microgram/ml fk506 and low-dose of adriamycin .
in the most advanced cases , only the proangiogenic lowermost layers of the hypertrophic zone of the growth plate were eroded .
this corresponded with the growth plate layers which highly expressed the angiogenic factor vegf .
in contrast , the resting , proliferative and upper hypertrophic layers were resistant to osteosarcoma invasion in all cases .
this corresponded to the layers with the highest expression of the potent antiangiogenic factor pedf .
the balance of angiogenesis , influenced by pro- and antiangiogenic factors , is likely to play an important role in this resistance .
here we show that mitochondrial dysfunction leads to telomere attrition , telomere loss , and chromosome fusion and breakage , accompanied by apoptosis .
an antioxidant prevented telomere loss and genomic instability in cells with dysfunctional mitochondria , suggesting that reactive oxygen species are mediators linking mitochondrial dysfunction and genomic instability .
this work links mitochondrial dysfunction and genomic instability and may provide new therapeutic strategies to combat certain mitochondrial and aging-associated pathologies .
we present a new cell line , ej established from an invasive endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the uterine corpus in a 56-year-old patient .
the cells show rapid growth in culture with a doubling time of 16 h and high migration activity .
monolayer-cultured cells were polygonal in shape showing a tendency to pile up without contact inhibition .
subcutaneous transplantation of the ej cells into nude mice formed solid tumors that were histologically diagnosed as adenocarcinoma , whereas no metastasis was observed .
genetic and molecular analyses revealed high telomerase activity but not estrogen receptor alpha expression .
using the dna sequencing technique , we have screened ej cells for p53 mutation in exon 5 to 8 but no mutation of p53 was observed .
the transformation efficiencies of rev1aa with abasic-containing oligonucleotides were lower than those of b7528 , a strain proficient in rev1 gene , but much higher than rev1 delta mutant .
sequence analysis opposite the lesions showed that the mutation spectra were different among these three strains .
we found that sh-sy5y cells expressed vegf-a on both the mrna and protein levels , that plasma concentrations of vegf-a were significantly elevated in animals with neuroblastoma with a volume &gt ; 1.4 ml , and that there was a correlation between vegf-a levels in plasma and tumor size in untreated tumor-bearing animals .
su5416 treatment also suppressed tumor angiogenesis , despite an increase in plasma vegf-a levels per ml tumor volume during therapy .
our experimental data suggest that the angiogenesis inhibitor su5416 may be beneficial in the treatment of solid tumors of childhood such as neuroblastoma .
epidermal growth factor was present in 12.7% of normal ovaries , with a range 0.030-0.533 ng/mg dna , and in 31.8% of benign ovarian tumours , with a range 0.1335-2.080 ng/ml dna .
tgf alpha was present in 84.5% of normal ovaries , with a range of values from 0.037-18.2 ng/mg dna , and in 84.1% of benign ovarian tumours , with a range of 0.083-195 ng/mg dna .
the tgf alpha content in post menopausal benign ovarian tumours was significantly higher ( p &lt ; 0.0001 ) than tgf alpha in the pre-menopausal normal ovarian group .
the frequency of detection and levels of tgf alpha measured were significantly higher than those of egf in the normal ovary group ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) and also in the benign ovarian group ( p &lt ; 0.005 ) .
we conclude that tgf alpha is the predominant growth factor present in normal ovaries and benign ovarian tumours .
indomethacin reduced tumour incidence significantly , but conversely increased the tumour size and the number of brdu-positive cells in both the high and the low dietary-fat groups .
no significant difference was noted in the hormone-receptor status of the tumours .
growth factors ( tgf-alpha and igf-ii ) were somewhat highly expressed in the high dietary-fat group as compared with the low dietary-fat group , but indomethacin rather reduced the growth-factor expression .
it is concluded that high dietary fat stimulates tumour incidence and tumour proliferation , while indomethacin has dual effects : a stimulating effect on tumour proliferation , but an inhibiting effect on tumour incidence .
it is also suggested that hormone-receptor status and growth-factor expression do not play an important role in their stimulating effects on tumour proliferation .
the hpv6 genes , alone or together ( hpv6 e6 plus hpv6 e7 ) , were not able to immortalize cells .
however the hpv6 e6 gene , in concert with hpv16 e7 , increased the frequency of immortalization threefold over that obtained with hpv16 e7 alone .
interestingly , 6 of 20 clones containing the hpv16 e6 gene and the hpv6 e7 gene were immortalized , whereas neither gene alone was sufficient .
thus , the hpv6 e6 and e7 genes have weak immortalizing activities which can be detected in cooperation with the more active transforming genes of hpv16 .
acute expression of the hpv6 and hpv16 e6 and e7 genes revealed that only hpv16 e7 was able to stimulate the proliferation of cells in organotypic culture , resulting in increased expression of the proliferative cell nuclear antigen and the formation of a disorganized epithelial layer .
additionally , combinations of genes that immortalized hfe cells ( hpv16 e6 plus hpv16 e7 , hpv16 e6 plus hpv6 e7 , and hpv6 e6 plus hpv16 e7 ) also stimulated proliferation .
the hpv16 variant was able to extend the lifespan of , but failed to immortalize , human keratinocytes .
complementation assays using the hpv16 variant and a full-length e2 enabled the cloned variant to immortalize human cervical keratinocytes with wild-type efficiency .
these results suggest that other viral gene products in addition to e6/e7 may play an important role in the in vitro immortalization of cervical keratinocytes in hpv16 and the development of cervical cancer .
mutation of either the e1 gene or the e2 gene in the background of a " wild-type " hpv-16 genome markedly increased immortalization capacity .
mutations were also generated in the e2-binding sites located upstream of the p97 promoter , which directs synthesis of the viral e6 and e7 transforming genes .
surprisingly , the mutation of these sites only partially relieved the negative effect of e2 on viral immortalization , implicating additional mechanisms in the e2 repression of viral immortalization functions .
our results provide genetic evidence that the e1 and e2 gene products each can repress hpv-16 immortalization and support the hypothesis that a selective growth advantage is provided by integration of the viral genome in a manner that causes the loss of expression of either e1 or e2 .
while wild-type p53 inhibited keratinocyte proliferation , both mouse and human mutant p53s , in conjunction with e7 , increased proliferation of the keratinocytes , resulting in generation of immortalized lines .
these results suggest that inactivation of wild-type p53 is necessary for hpv-induced immortalization of human keratinocytes and that different or additional activities are required for e6-dependent transformation and trans activation of nih 3t3 cells .
these findings , although preliminary , suggest that inflammatory cells within gliomas are inactivated and that glioma cells may increase the expression of immunosuppressive cytokines in response to an increased lymphocyte infiltrate .
if these cells are mixed with an extract of basement-membrane proteins ( matrigel ) and injected s.c. , they form locally invasive and highly vascularized tumors .
cells cultured from the nih-3t3-matrigel-induced tumors showed a transformed phenotype and lacked contact inhibition .
when cultured in a gel of matrigel , they proliferated and formed branched and invasive colonies .
in contrast , the parental nih-3t3 cells cultured on matrigel remained as cell aggregates and were not invasive .
i.v. injections of the tumor-derived nih-3t3 cells produced many colonies on the surface of the lungs , whereas the parental nih-3t3 cells were not metastatic .
antagonism of endogenous vip , either by competitive inhibition or receptor blockade , increased cell proliferation , suggesting that vip is operative in normal growth regulation .
furthermore , a concomitant marked increase in vip receptor expression was demonstrated with cellular differentiation .
it is concluded that vip is a normal autoregulator of neuroblastoma cell growth and differentiation , and that retinoic acid-mediated differentiation may be , in part , due to endogenous vip .
incidence of esophageal tumors were also greatest in the nmbza-treated , immunocompromised animals .
mice fed vitamin e-supplemented diets showed increased ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) hepatic concentrations of vitamin e and vitamin a , decreased activities of serum transaminases , decreased indices of lipid peroxidation , and decreased size and frequency of esophageal tumors in both the immunocompromised and non-immunocompromised mice .
these results suggest that vitamin e plays an antioxidant function that retards the incidence of esophageal cancers in immunocompromised and non-immunocompromised animals .
the results showed ( 1 ) the significant impairment of nk cell activity and t-lymphocyte subsets , were decreased in cd3+ , cd4+ cells and increased in cd6+ cells resulting in cd4+/cd8+ cell ratio decrease in peripheral blood lymphocytes ( pbl ) , splenic venous blood lymphocytes ( svl ) and spleen cells ( sc ) of agc , as compared with pbl of normal population ; ( 2 ) nk cell activity or cd4+/cd8+ cell ratio of svl and sc were significantly lower than those of pbl in agc patients , mainly caused by marked decrease of cd4+ cells in sc ; ( 3 ) nk cell activity , cd4+ cells and cd4+/cd8+ cell ratio were significantly elevated in most of agc cases receiving either radical gastrectomy ( r2+ ) or extensive radical gastrectomy ( r3 ) .
as a rule , agc would weaken immune function of patients , and along with the development of the tumor , the immunosuppression in the spleen would be generated gradually .
results pretreatment with o6-benzylguanine , o6-methylguanine , or streptozocin reduced agat activity to 4% , 25% , and 95% of control values , respectively , in d341 med and 0% , 0% , and 25% of control values , respectively , in d-456 mg 1 hour after injection .
we show that the base substitution error rates on an alkylated substrate are similar for the replication of the leading and lagging strands .
moreover , we present evidence that the fidelity of replication opposite o6-methylguanine adducts of both the leading and lagging strands is not affected by the 3 ' flanking base .
the preferential targeting of mutations after replication of alkylated dna is mainly driven by the base at the 5 ' side of the g residues .
a slight difference in attachment characteristics between the clones was seen in response to phorbol ester stimulation , which significantly inhibited attachment of the low metastatic clone but which had no effect on the highly metastatic clone .
this study suggests that signal transduction mechanisms are involved in melanoma cell attachment to matrix proteins and offers an approach to pharmacological manipulation of these cell-matrix interactions which may be relevant to reducing metastatic spread .
the morphology of the antisense transformants indicated a partial conversion to the senescent phenotype of wi-38 .
the relative number of cells in the s phase of the antisense transformants was decreased as compared to that in cultures of va-13 and about 50% of cells were at g1/0 .
together , these results show that an antisense gene for sv40-t antigen can efficiently block the cell proliferation and the cell immortalization of va-13 cells .
the mean value of ki-67-positive cells was 0.91 +/- 0.31% for normal breast tissue , 4.57 +/- 1.36% for noninvasive ductal carcinoma , and 12.76 +/- 2.18% for invasive breast cancer .
feeding of 6-mp at 50 p.p.m. for 20 weeks to animals with pre-existing liver cirrhosis caused immunosuppression , and significantly enhanced the induction of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase ( ggt)-positive foci and nodules in the ccl4 but not furfural case .
engineered nr6 cells that overexpress the her-2 gene product display a highly transformed and tumorigenic phenotype as compared with control cells .
additionally , a monoclonal antibody to the extracellular domain of the her-2 receptor is able to inhibit the proliferation of the overexpressing cells in vitro as well as tumor growth in vivo .
this study provides clear evidence that her-2-mediated transformation can be achieved independently of the egf receptor .
ra also inhibited the development of tpa-induced immunosuppression to a locally applied contact sensitizer .
however , the ra treatment did not prevent local immunosuppression to the contact sensitizer from developing in response to uv irradiation .
the reasons for this are unclear , however , it is possible that ra does not inhibit some other immunosuppressive effect of uv light .
by flow cytometry , we observed a good correlation among pcna labeling and s-phase fraction ( r = 0.422 , p = .0093 ) and g1 phase ( r = 0.303 , p = .051 ) of the cell cycle .
results indicate that pcna labeling with pc10 is a simple method for assessing the proliferative activity in formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tissue of nsclc and correlates well with ki-67 labeling and s-phase fraction of the cell cycle .
a significant difference in the amounts of cellular proliferation in her-2/neu overexpressing cancers was found between those that expressed the her-2/neu receptor on their membranes and those that exhibited mainly cytoplasmic receptors .
we found that sera of patients with a variety of inflammatory dermatoses contain elevated levels of antibodies ( ab ) binding to an oxidized dna base derivative , 5-hydroxymethyl-2'deoxyuridine ( hmdu ) coupled to bovine serum albumin , as determined by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay .
treatment of inflammatory dermatoses with systemic antiinflammatory and cytotoxic drugs significantly lowered the titers [ p &lt ; 0.005 ( immune complex ) or p &lt ; 0.001 ( psoriasis and neoplastic ) diseases ] , suggesting that this assay may be of value in monitoring the response to therapy in these diseases .
in all primary and precrisis cells , two proteins of 92 and 150 kda that shared an epitope with p53 were found ; in most of their immortalized derivatives , however , they were absent .
expression of these proteins may be involved in senescence .
mutation of other conserved residues , including ser-97 , ser-307 , asp-78 , asp-371 , asp-440 , his-93 , and his-439 resulted in the expression of active enzymes .
in summary , mutation of ser-132 , asp-156 , and his-241 specifically abolishes total hydrolytic activity without disrupting other important functional domains of lpl .
karyotypic analysis , however , demonstrated that all of the immortal cell lines in this series have alterations of chromosome 6 involving loss of the portion distal to 6q21 .
southern analysis demonstrated that only one copy of three proto-oncogene loci ( ros1 , c-myb , and mas1 ) on 6q was retained in immortal cells .
we hypothesize that the region at and/or distal to 6q21 plays a role in immortalization , consistent with the presence of a growth suppressor gene .
basic fibroblast growth factor significantly increased the proliferation in vitro and tumour growth after grafting into nude mice .
the epidermal growth factor receptor was not expressed on cultivated cb109 cells .
with one exception , all the patients had at least a single recurrences of their primary mixed tumor , but two or more recurrences were the norm before development of metastatic foci .
the metastases were discovered from six to 52 years following the occurrence of the primary tumor .
metastatic deposits were identified in bone , lung , regional lymph nodes , skin , kidney , retroperitoneum , oral cavity , pharynx , calvarium , and central nervous system .
the metastases either occurred simultaneously with an episode of recurrent mixed tumor ( n = 5 ) or from 5 to 29 years after a recurrence ( n = 6 ) .
follow-up , ranging from 8 months to 16 years following the diagnosis of mzmt , revealed seven patients to be alive without disease ( 64% ) and two dead of causes unrelated to metastatic disease ( 18% ) .
two patients ( 18% ) died as a direct result of metastatic tumor at 3 and 2 years after metastasis of their mixed tumors .
flow cytometric analysis revealed a diploid dna cell population in the primary and/or metastatic tumors in nine cases .
aneuploid dna cell content was identified in two of the cases .
dna ploidy levels and cell proliferation rates were compared with those of conventional benign mixed tumors and also with malignant mixed tumors .
retrospective analysis of histologic parameters ( mitotic rate , cellular pleomorphism , infiltrative growth , vascular or lymphatic invasion ) and flow cytometric analysis failed to identify criteria to predict the development of metastasis in these neoplasms .
furthermore , some chemicals known either to cause mammary cancer in rodents or to be contaminants in human breast tissue are genotoxic in hmec .
the hmec uds assay may be used to address the role of environmental agents in human breast cancer by determining whether chemicals are dna reactive or metabolized to dna reactive species in this critical target tissue .
after a 2-h drug exposure , the occurrence of dna single-strand breaks ( ssbs ) was time dependent .
a significant level of dna ssbs ( 101 +/- 13 rad equivalents ) was still detectable at 72 h after the 2-h treatment with 1 microm ici d1694 .
no significant level of dna ssbs was detected when cells were exposed simultaneously to ici d1694 and 20 microm [ 6rs]lv .
complete rescue of drug-induced dna ssbs could be achieved when cells were exposed to 10 microm dthd starting no later than 4 h after drug treatment .
the results demonstrate that : ( a ) the growth inhibition of ici d1694 is a function of time and schedule ; ( b ) the growth inhibition is accompanied by extensive dna single-strand breaks and slow repair ; ( c ) at 1 microm ici d1694 , 3 microms dthd and 5 microms [ 6rs]lv can completely rescue cells from drug effects when dthd is added up to 4 h following drug treatment or when [ 6rs]lv is given in combination with the drug ; ( d ) interference of [ 6rs]lv with ici d1694 action may be occurring at the level of drug uptake and at intracellular targets , while dthd interferes with the drug action at intracellular targets .
we demonstrated that the calu-6 and a549 cell lines with the highest metastatic , invasive and tumorigenic potential secreted the highest levels of mmp-2 .
timp-2 secretion , which exceeded mmp-2 secretion for all cell lines , did not correlate with metastatic potential .
the k-rev revertant cell lines demonstrated a more differentiated phenotype and were less tumorigenic , invasive and metastatic in nude mice .
in conclusion , invasion and metastasis by lung-cancer cells requires not only enhanced mmp production , but also other less well-understood tumorigenic characteristics .
the multiplicity of factors required by cancer cells for dissemination helps to explain the minute fraction of cancer cells from a primary tumor that ever develop into a metastasis .
oestradiol increased the response of cells to the proliferative effects of epidermal growth factor ( egf ) , transforming growth factor alpha ( tgf-alpha ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) .
platelet derived growth factor ( pdgf ) and cathepsin d had no effect in the presence or absence of oestradiol while tgf-beta slightly reduced the stimulation by oestradiol .
in the absence of oestradiol , there was little effect of combinations of growth factors although the effects of bfgf and igf-i were additive .
overall , bfgf had the greatest effect on cell proliferation although this was less marked than the previously described effect of the igfs and insulin .
the effects of oestradiol on the sensitivity of cells to the proliferative effects of bfgf did not appear to result from regulation of bfgf receptor expression .
oral treatment with approximately 1 mg kg-1 day-1 piroxicam delayed both tumour growth and the growth of pulmonary metastases .
survival of mice bearing the primary tumour was significantly lengthened by anti-inflammatory treatment .
upon surgical removal of the primary tumour 34 days after grafting , piroxicam treatment significantly decreased both the number and size of pulmonary metastases .
the results of this study lends support to the hypothesis that inhibition or modulation of inflammation may delay tumour organisation and growth .
it is suggested that piroxicam treatment may be an appropriate adjunct therapy to delay the appearance of pulmonary metastases and to increase life-expectancy in a host whose primary tumour has to be surgically removed .
quercetin reversibly blocked the cell cycle at a point 3-6 h before the start of dna synthesis .
comparison of the quercetin arrest points with those of the cell cycle inhibitors aphidicolin and mimosine revealed a temporal order of arrest points in g1 of quercetin , mimosine , and aphidicolin .
these results suggest the usefulness of quercetin in studies of the regulation of late g1 phase .
the levels of both 7-methylguanine and o6-mgua reached a maximum 24 h after nnk treatment .
o6-mgua in nnk-treated rat liver was undetectable after 48 h .
in the rat , the depletion of o6-mguat activity occurred within 4 h following nnk treatment .
in contrast , high levels of o6-mgua persisted in hamster liver dna and no o6-mguat activity was detected up to 336 h after nnk injection .
thus , the persistence of o6-mgua in hamster liver is most likely related to a lack of recovery of the o6-mguat .
these results suggested that factors other than o6-mgua may be determining nnk-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rats .
an aldehyde generated by alpha-hydroxylation of nnk , 4-oxo-4-(3-pyridyl)butanal , inhibited o6-mguat activity in rat hepatocytes , suggesting that this aldehyde contributes to the carcinogenicity of nnk by inhibiting this repair enzyme .
transforming growth factor beta 1 , an inhibitor of 3t3-l1 differentiation , increased both the percentage of proliferating cells and the cellular levels of histone mrna when given in addition to serum stimulation , but no enhancement of these parameters was observed upon addition of tgf beta 1 to the differentiation treatment .
thus , apo-1-mediated induction of apoptosis was dependent on efficient cross-linking of apo-1 cell surface ag , indirectly augmented by anti-apo-1 fc-fc self-aggregation .
all antibody preparations induced tumor regression by induction of apoptosis , even igg2b anti-apo-1 inactive in vitro without cross-linking .
the activity of iga anti-apo-1 , which did not mediate complement-dependent cytotoxicity or antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity indicates that apoptosis may be used as the main if not the only mechanism of induction of tumor regression in vivo .
this result suggests that cross-linking of apo-1 on the tumor cell surface may also be required for tumor regression by apoptosis in vivo .
taken together , our data show that selective targeting of apoptosis to tumors may be an efficient antitumor mechanism .
we found that the administration of inh severely impaired the immunological effects of bcg .
enlargement of the regional lymph nodes ( weight and number of cells ) , and increase of mhc class ii expression on the lymph node cells , normally observed after intravesical bcg administration , were inhibited by inh .
systemic immunity , measured by the dth reaction in the skin to ppd , was also diminished due to the combined treatment of bcg with inh .
when inh was administered during the last 4 of 6 bcg instillations , the immune response to bcg was still impaired .
a five-fold increase of the dose of bcg did not overcome the effect of inh .
inh probably did not exert a direct suppression of the immune system of the guinea pig as the dncb skin reactivity was not influenced .
in conclusion , our data in guinea pigs suggest that the use of inh may impair the immune response to intravesical bcg .
metastatic involvement was found in a total number of 503 lymph nodes from 73 patients by histologic examination .
sixty-seven ( 13.3% ) of 503 nodes were partially invaded by micrometastasis of 1mm or less in diameter .
micrometastasis also more frequently occurred in mediastinal nodes with a statistically significant difference .
extranodal proliferation ( enp ) of cancer cells was found in 106 nodes ( 21.1% ) , and extranodal lymphatic and/or blood vessel invasion ( enly , v ) was also recognized in 60 nodes ( 11.9% ) .
micrometastasis and enp with or without enly , v were found in 24 ( 32.9% ) and 29 ( 39.7% ) of 73 patients with positive lymph node metastasis , respectively .
the results indicate that not only the collateral sensitivity in classical mdr but also the cytotoxic actions of cyclosporins per se on tumor cells alone are independent of immunosuppressive activity .
scatchard analysis of the binding of [ 125i]-labelled ldl at 4 degrees c after an 18-h incubation of the cells with 1170 units/ml il-1 beta and 5 ng/ml tgf-beta 1 showed that they were both acting primarily by increasing ldl receptor number .
the increase in ldl receptor activity could not be attributed to an increase in cell proliferation as tgf-beta 1 at concentrations from 0.05 ng/ml to 50 ng/ml had no significant effect on either cell number or [ 3h]thymidine incorporation into dna whilst il-1 beta inhibited dna synthesis by more than 80% at a concentration of 11,700 units/ml but had significant effect on cell number .
the modest response of c3 cells to either afgf or bfgf also decreased as cell plating density was reduced .
in terms of carbohydrate metabolism , lactate production from glucose was drastically reduced ; therefore , most of lactate produced must have been derived from glutamine .
in contrast , actual glycolytic flux rates declined , whereas key glycolytic enzyme activities increased .
based on the lowered nad level in the amp-treated cells , lactate dehydrogenase , but not malate dehydrogenase , was impaired ; thereby the whole of glycolysis was inhibited .
gamma-radiation , tetrandrine , bistratene a , and cisplatin were all found to induce pronounced morphological changes characteristic of apoptosis and extensive dna fragmentation in the human bm13674 cell line 8 h after treatment .
apoptosis induced in bm13674 cells by these diverse agents was markedly inhibited by 1 microm okadaic acid , a tumour promoter that inhibits protein phosphatases 1 and 2a .
this compound also inhibited the appearance of apoptosis in fresh human leukaemia cells that had been exposed to gamma-radiation .
the inhibition of apoptosis was confirmed using fluorescence microscopy and dna gel electrophoresis .
dephosphorylation of a limited number of proteins was shown to be associated with apoptosis and okadaic acid prevented these dephosphorylations .
the present data provides further support that posttranslational modification of proteins , in particular , phosphorylation/dephosphorylation status , plays an important role in inhibition/activation of programmed cell death in different human cells after exposure to several cytotoxic agents .
transformed cells ( f cells ) form " foci " in culture , lack contact inhibition , and are able to migrate , typical characteristics of dedifferentiated tumorigenic cells .
these results support the hypothesis that high u-pa levels are important for tumor invasion and that the stage of tumor development is a critical factor in their pa activity .
tumour and surrounding liver necrosis increased with light dose delivered ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
dysfunction of t and b lymphocytes was demonstrated by changed lymphocyte blastogenic response to stimulation with phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) , concanavalin a ( cona ) , pisum sativatum agglutinin ( psa ) , wheat germ agglutinin ( wga ) , recombinant interleukin 2 ( il 2 ) , and dextran sulfate ( dxs ) ; also by decreased immunoglobulin levels ( igg , iga , ige ) and increased beta 2-microglobulin ( beta 2-m ) values .
simultaneously , dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis , immune system integration , imbalance of sex hormones , and changes in thyroid hormones were observed in the same group of patients .
disturbed immunohormonal interactions in early-stage cll may be responsible for the pathogenetic mechanisms in this lymphoproliferative malignancy .
dna ssb levels were found to be significantly higher in smoking controls compared to non-smoking controls .
significant increases of 36% and 49% in dna ssb were detected from monday to friday for non-smoking and smoking radiotherapy technicians , respectively .
gamma-radiation resulted in increased dna ssb levels of mnc in radiotherapy technicians throughout the working week and these breaks have been observed to be repaired at the weekend .
smoking habit caused an additional increase in the ssbs observed in radiotherapy technicians .
flow cytometry showed an accumulation of cells in the g0-g1 phase of the cell cycle and a concomitant decrease of the percentage of cells in s phase .
however , another lipoxygenase inhibitor , bw755c , inhibited only weakly [ 3h]-thymidine incorporation and accumulated the cells in s and g2 .
compared to e-type cells or the parental sw480 cells , isolated r-type cells display decreased doubling time , loss of contact inhibition , less adhesiveness to culture plates , higher anchorage-independent growth in soft agar , and a much more aneuploid karyotype .
this study demonstrated that dsl-6 pancreatic carcinoma expresses three subtypes of cck receptors .
gastrin ( cck-b ) receptors , which were not detected in normal rat pancreas , constitute about one third of the total high affinity cck receptors .
we suggest that novel expression of gastrin ( cck-b ) receptors may be generated by gene mutation or amplification during carcinogenesis and may play an important role in promoting tumor growth .
when tgf-beta 1 or dexamethasone was added to cultures of mrc-5 human embryonic lung fibroblasts and hl-60 human promyelocytic leukemic cells , the amount of hgf secreted into the culture medium was inhibited to 30-40% of that of control cultures by 10 ng/ml tgf-beta 1 and to 40-50% by 10(-6) m dexamethasone .
the inhibitory effect of tgf-beta 1 and dexamethasone on hgf synthesis in mrc-5 cells was additive , thereby suggesting that tgf-beta 1 and dexamethasone exert effects through distinct mechanisms .
hydrocortisone also inhibited hgf synthesis with the same potency as dexamethasone ; however , testosterone , estriol , and beta-estradiol had no effect .
the rate of hgf synthesis in mrc-5 cells , as measured by pulse labeling with [ 35s]methionine and subsequent immunoprecipitation , was suppressed to 30-40% of the control with 10 ng/ml tgf-beta 1 , and to 30-45% by 10(-6) m dexamethasone .
hgf mrna levels in mrc-5 cells and hl-60 cells were dose-dependently suppressed by tgf-beta 1 and dexamethasone ; 10 ng/ml tgf-beta 1 suppressed hgf mrna levels to 32% and 35% of control culture , respectively , in mrc-5 cells and hl-60 cells , and 10(-6) m dexamethasone suppressed to 43% and 38% , respectively .
thus , tgf-beta 1 and glucocorticoids seem to inhibit hgf synthesis by suppressing the expression of the hgf gene .
we propose that a negative regulation of hgf gene expression by tgf-beta 1 or glucocorticoids may be involved in physiological or pathological processes during tissue regeneration .
we found the gly7--&gt;d-ala7 analog to be equal to peptide 11 in inhibiting tumor cell invasion of basement membrane matrix .
the gly7--&gt;l-ala7 analog was much less capable of invasion inhibition .
these results suggest that a bend in the yigsr region of peptide 11 may be important for the binding of laminin to its metastasis-associated receptor .
this effect was associated with a substantial decrease in epidermal growth factor ( egf ) receptor levels in pancreatic and colon cancers .
results the eukaryotic expression vector prc/cmv-as was identified by the restriction digest. prc/cmv-as was stably integrated into the target cells and expressed by western blot and drug-sensitivity tests , and inhibited the vascular endothelial cells proliferation in vitro .
we detected il-1 in all tumor homogenates and il-4 , il-6 , and gm-csf in some homogenates .
these results support our hypothesis that hnscc secrete cytokines that may influence the response of local immune cells .
our data also suggest that il-1 may have a central role in regulating the local immune response through the enhancement or induction of cytokine production by tumor and/or resident tissue cells .
deoxymannojirimycin , a compound that prevents synthesis of hybrid and complex-type oligosaccharides , inhibited the formation of capillary tubes .
in contrast , swainsonine , an inhibitor that blocks synthesis of complex- but not hybrid-type oligosaccharides , did not inhibit tube formation .
this effect was mediated by a rapid downmodulation of epo receptors by gm-csf at messenger rna and binding sites levels , without a change in receptor affinities .
on the other hand , epo had no effect on number and affinity of gm-csf receptors .
this study shows that ut-7 is a growth factor-dependent pluripotent cell line in which commitment may be directed by a hierarchical action of growth factors through an early and rapid transmodulation of growth factor receptors .
this is the first description of site-specific ach-hb adducts occurring in vivo .
the routine detection of such adducts has potential for characterizing usual alcohol intake .
in mice in which inflammation was induced at the same region , on the other hand , hepatic levels of zn and mt increased transiently after the injection of turpentine or carrageenan even when they were fed the zn-deficient diet .
this loss of normal thymocytes coincided with the appearance of small dense cells with characteristic features of apoptosis including condensed chromatin , increased dna fragmentation , internucleosomal dna cleavage and a " hypodiploid " peak on flow cytometric analysis .
however , at later times , the complex fate of apoptotic cells in vivo , such as phagocytosis , are not observed in the in vitro studies .
all kinetic and odc data indicated increased dna synthesis and proliferation at all time points .
our results indicate that only guanine residues were chelated with cisplatin to yield bifunctional adducts .
furthermore , by performing enzymatic digestions with phosphodiesterases , we have located the adducts with respect to the 5 ' end of the octamer .
among the purified and characterized platinated oligonucleotides , three present a particular interest , since we have shown here that the cis-d(gpg) adduct is precisely situated either at the d(ggc) or at the d(ggt) or at both sites of their sequence .
light exposure of cells at 1 degrees c in the presence of the sensitizers induced dna double-strand breaks .
a comparison of cellular characteristics with corresponding dna methylation changes in different clones suggested that the loss of contact inhibition and the gain of anchorage independency were associated with increases of methylation in many genes , whereas the acquisition of tumorigenicity was often accompanied by a decrease of methylation in the n-myc and c-myc genes .
the necrotic or cystic areas in the tumor were not enhanced , rendering them distinctly .
area showing inflammatory cells infiltration and edematous areas in the tumor tissue were also enhanced .
in a " blinded " study of 21 patients receiving combination cisplatin/carboplatin drug therapy , there was a direct relationship between dna damage in leukocytes and disease response ( summary two-sided p = 0.00011 ) .
the cohort of patients had 15 different tumor types , suggesting that blood tissue and tumor tissue of an individual may process platinum-dna damage similarly regardless of the tissue of origin of the tumor .
in leukocytes in vivo , persistence and accumulation were prominent features of the cisplatin-dna adduct profile .
in the three t cell lines studied , host cell reactivation efficiency was directly related to the cells ' abilities to repair cisplatin-damaged cellular dna ( correlation coefficient = 0.993).(abstract truncated at 250 words )
surprisingly , irf-1 is expressed twice during a single prl-induced growth cycle : first during the early g1 phase , in an immediate transient peak from 15 min to 2 h , and second during the g1/s phase transition , in a broader peak beginning at 8 h .
however , the rate of irf-1 protein turnover appears to be different in g1 and s phases .
irf-1 protein expressed in g1 exhibits a half-life of about 25 min , whereas in the s phase , the half-life is about 60 min .
our data suggest that prl and one putative nuclear mediator , irf-1 , may be important in two distinct phases of the cell cycle : first in cell cycle activation , and then in s phase progression .
a recombination-deficient rad52 strain was the least efficient in the repair of psoralen-damaged plasmids ; excision repair-deficient rad1 and rad3 strains had repair efficiencies intermediate between those of rad52 and rad cells .
the level of repair also depended on the conditions of transformant selection ; repair was more efficient in medium lacking tryptophan than in medium from which either histidine or uracil was omitted .
the plasmid repair differential between these selective media was greatest in rad1 cells , and depended on rad52 .
results the studies demonstrated that 38.2% of scc had recurrence and/or metastases after operation .
however , only 0.0% and 0.04% , in vc and bcc , respectively , had recurrence and/or metastases .
the degree of expression of e-cad was correlated with the ability of invasion and/or metastasis of scc , vc and bcc .
results in patients with primary tumour in the first determination : 6 patients with over normal values in pbmcs apoptosis and 5 patients with increased values of sfas .
in the second determination : apoptosis was increased in 5 patients and sfas level was increased in 4 cases .
in patients with metastases in the first determination apoptosis of pbmc was increased in 7 cases and sfas in 5 cases .
in the second determination apoptosis was increased in 4 cases and sfas was increased in 4 cases .
our results show that half of the investigated patients presented elevated values of pbmcs apoptosis and fas receptor both before and 6-7 months after tumour excision .
apoptosis values for pbmcs and sfas values were with 1/4 higher than normals .
the presence of increased values for pbmcs and sfas after tumour excision , primary or metastasis is surprising and hard to explain .
we show that increasing cellular senescence with age is a possible cause of this reduction , since senescent cells are removed from the pool of cells that retain proliferative ability necessary for cancer .
we further show that animal interventions appearing to alter senescence , p53 mutation and melatonin dosing , support the prediction that increasing senescence rate reduces cancer while reducing lifespan , and vice versa .
we also show that if an agent functions by slowing both senescence and carcinogenesis , longevity is increased while reducing cancer .
epidermal growth factor receptor complementary dna was introduced in estrogen-dependent zr-75-1 breast cancer cells , and the resulting zr/herc cells exhibited a mitogenic response to epidermal growth factor , thus bypassing estrogen dependence .
this egf-induced proliferation could not be inhibited by antiestrogens .
in addition , we noted changes in cell morphology and keratin expression of egf-stimulated zr/herc cells , suggestive of an altered differentiation state .
furthermore , intolerance of functional er and egf receptor signal transduction pathways in zr/herc cells was observed during simultaneous activation , which possibly explains the inverse relationship of er and egf receptor expression in primary tumors .
these results suggest a possible role for egf receptor in progression of breast cancer to hormone independence .
in mice fed a diet supplemented with red clover isoflavones the prostatic epithelium displays a significant increase in the production of estrogen receptor beta and the adhesion protein e-cadherin but a decrease in transforming growth factor beta1 .
we also demonstrate that the aic extensively inhibits the growth of ln3 cells in vitro in a concentration-dependent fashion , causing the cells to undergo apoptosis .
functional studies of these mutants revealed one essential element ( a ) , which includes a match to the ars consensus sequence , and three additional elements ( b1 , b2 , and b3 ) , which collectively are also essential for origin function .
this indicates that persons with low activity carry a large deletion mutation within the gst class mu gene .
results loss of contact inhibition was observed in all nine late-passage cell lines .
six of the nine late-passage , but none of the early-passage , cell lines tested exhibited a capacity for substrate-independent growth that was augmented in a dose-dependent manner by epidermal growth factor .
however , immortalization was frequently observed .
therefore the induction of immortalization appears indirect .
the progeny of benzo(a)pyrene treated cells immortalized with a rate of 3.9 x 10(-8)/cell/generation , which is 64 times higher than the spontaneous rate .
cell lysis was efficiently inhibited by cycloheximide and 3-methyladenine ( 3ma ) , a specific inhibitor of autophagy .
cycloheximide , which like 3ma inhibits autophagy , protected even when added at a time when the protein synthesis had been blocked by ricin , suggesting that the effect of cycloheximide on cell lysis is independent of its ability to inhibit protein synthesis .
also theophylline and dibutyryl-cgmp had some protective effect , whereas a number of compounds reported to protect against apoptosis in other systems were without protective effects .
the data suggest that autophagy is important for the toxin-induced cell lysis .
in temperature-sensitive ( ts)-v-erb b erythroblasts and ts-v-src fibroblasts ( as well as in v-myc macrophages ) , loss of p53 mrna or expression of a mutated p53 gene invariably occurred in the early phase of immortalization .
in contrast , expression of the rb gene was unchanged at all stages of immortalization .
the results demonstrate that the process of immortalization is distinct from cell transformation , probably requiring different mutational events .
we demonstrated that both skrc-4 and skrc-29 cells were growth stimulated by greater than 35% when cultured in the presence of tgf-alpha or egf and were inhibited by 29% to 46% if cultured in the presence of anti-egf-r monoclonal antibody 225 .
treatment of cells with tgf-alpha enhanced the levels of expression of egf-r mrna and tgf-alpha mrna .
in addition , incubation of cells with monoclonal antibody 225 significantly elevated the levels of excreted tgf-alpha species in the culture medium .
our findings suggest that proliferation of human renal carcinoma cells may be regulated by endogenously produced tgf-alpha and that this regulatory pathway can be interrupted using antibody to its receptor , egf-r .
our results indicate that il-2 significantly increased the activity of nk cells of controls and breast cancer patients .
increased depth of invasion was associated with increased incidence of inguinal node metastasis .
cox regression analysis demonstrated prognostic significance for tumor thickness ( p less than 0.001 ) , inguinal node metastasis ( p less than 0.001 ) , and older age at diagnosis ( p less than 0.001 ) .
we suggest that depletion of such systems , particularly in ageing organisms and under conditions of oxidative stress , plays an important role in degenerative and inflammatory diseases , including cancer .
tumor latency ( fibrosarcoma ) , aggregate tumor weight ( s.c. injected melanoma ) , or time to death from pulmonary metastasis ( i.v. injected melanoma ) was determined ; drug-induced stimulation of dna synthesis in c-3 fibrosarcoma cells in vitro was correlated with tumor growth acceleration in vivo .
while the median time to death from pulmonary metastases did not differ among groups given i.v. injections of melanoma cells , a significant ( p less than 0.01 ) stimulation of growth of s.c. injected melanoma was observed in mice receiving the antidepressants.(abstract truncated at 400 words )
two patients who responded to tamoxifen had tumors with more than 75% estrogen receptor positive cells .
a decreased proliferation fraction was observed in two tumors responding to tamoxifen .
eight patients , all with estrogen receptor positive tumors , had stable disease .
progressive disease was observed in two patients with less than 25% receptor positive cells .
in these tumors the percentage of proliferating cells remained high during therapy .
the clinical response was reflected in a decreased proliferation fraction .
no correlation was observed between response and percentage of proliferating cells in the untreated tumor .
the results suggest that analysis of tumor cell characteristics such as hormone receptor content and proliferation fraction can be used to predict and monitor response to endocrine treatment and chemotherapy in breast carcinomas .
cell proliferation increased with increasing cell density , as did the concentration of prl in the medium .
antirat prl , but not control antibody , markedly inhibited but did not eliminate cell proliferation , and this effect was diminished with increasing prl concentration in the medium .
prl receptors were demonstrated on 40-50% of the cells by indirect immunofluorescence using a specific antirat prl receptor monoclonal antibody .
cell surface prl was colocalized to the same 40-50% of the cells and copatched or cocapped along with the receptors .
absence or presence of prl receptors did not correlate with stage of the cell cycle , as judged by ethidium bromide dual labeling .
these data have fulfilled four criteria necessary for establishment of a substance as a secreted autocrine growth factor : 1 ) the factor must be secreted ; 2 ) in log growth phase , increased cell proliferation should occur at increased cell densities ; 3 ) the cells must display a receptor for the factor ; and 4 ) there must be a growth response to the factor .
thus we have established that prl is an autocrine growth factor for at least 40-50% of the gh3 cell population .
this , to our knowledge , is the first example of autocrine growth factor activity of a major hormone normotopically expressed .
no significant differences were noted for mild to moderate cervical inflammation in all age groups .
there was a higher percentage of coc users with severe cervical inflammation compared to the control group in all age groups .
in conclusion , severe cervical inflammation and cin i are more frequent among zimbabwean women who use cocs as compared to non-users of cocs .
in escherichia coli , the frequency of induced -1 frameshift mutations was strongly dependent on the position of modification : ps3g-g3 was approximately 100-fold and 10-fold more mutagenic than ps3g-g1 and ps3g-g2 , respectively ; psg4-g4 was approximately 600-fold more mutagenic than psg4-g1 .
mutagenesis was sos-dependent and was markedly reduced in bacteria that were proficient in nucleotide excision repair as compared to a repair-deficient uvra6 mutant .
dna sequencing showed that -1 frameshift events in ps3g-1 consisted of either targeted mutations ( greater than 90% of induced mutations ) within the guanine sequence or semitargeted mutations ( greater than 10% ) in the 5 ' flanking repetitive cytosine sequence .
no semitargeted frameshifts were observed in plasmid psg4 , which lacks a repetitive sequence 5 ' to the adduct .
our results are consistent with a model for frameshift mutagenesis in which the acetylaminofluorene adduct ( i ) allows accurate incorporation of cytosine opposite the bulky lesion during dna synthesis and ( ii ) impedes elongation of primer/template termini formed opposite the adduct or 5 ' to the adduct on the template strand , providing increased opportunity for the formation of slipped frameshift intermediates .
a loss of membrane phospholipid asymmetry associated with apoptosis was induced by all tumor cell lines as evidenced by the externalization of phosphatidylserine .
western blot analysis of poly ( adp-ribose ) polymerase , a caspases substrate , showed the classical cleavage pattern ( 116 to 85kda ) associated with apoptosis in ha and hb-treated cell lysates .
these results demonstrate that tumor cell death induced by hb and ha is mediated by caspase proteases .
in addition , at equitoxic doses ( concentrations of the platinum drugs equal to their ic50 values ) and after 24 hours of drug treatment , the level of induction of apoptosis by trans-[ptcl2(nh(ch3)2)(nhch(ch3)2)] is twice that produced by cis-ddp .
under the same experimental conditions , trans-ddp does not induce significant levels of apoptosis in a2780cisr cells .
after 24 hours of incubation of a2780cisr cells at concentrations equal to the ic0o value of the platinum drugs , the level of dna interstrand cross-links ( icls ) induced by trans-[ptci2(nh(ch)2)(nhch(ch3)] is two and three times higher , respectively , than those induced by cis-ddp and trans-ddp .
we also found that trans-[ptcl2(nh(ch3)2)(nhch(ch3)2)] formed dna icls between guanine and complementary cytosine .
we propose that , in a2780cisr cells , the induction of apoptosis by trans-[ptcl2(nh(ch3)2)(nhch(ch3)2)] is related to its greater ability ( relative to cis-ddp and trans-ddp ) to form dna icls .
the morphology characteristics of cell apoptosis of the malignant tumour cells in magnetic field-treated mouse was observed for the first time .
the apoptotic cancer cell contracted , became rounder and divorced from adjacent cells ; the heterochromatin condensed and coagulated together along the inner side of the nuclear membrane ; the endoplasmic reticulums ( er ) expanded and fused with the cellular membrane ; many apoptotic bodies which were packed by the cellular membrane appeared and were devoured by some lymphocytes and plasma .
apoptosis of cancer cells was detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediatedin situ nick end labeling ( tunel ) .
it was found that the number of apoptosis cancer cells of the sample treated by the magnetic field is more than that of the control sample .
since ulf pulsed gradient magnetic field can induce apoptosis of cancer cells and inhibit the growth of malignant tumour , it could be used as a new method to treat cancer .
four dicarboximide-resistant isolates of b. cinerea ( bc-19 , bc-45 , bc-682 , and bc-rkr ) contained a single base pair mutation in their bcos1 gene that resulted in an amino acid substitution in the predicted protein .
the mutation of botrytis field resistant isolates was located on the second unit of tandem amino acid repeats of bcos1p , whereas the point mutations of the fifth repeat of os1p confer resistance to both dicarboximides and phenylpyrroles and also osmotic sensitivity in neurospora crassa .
the addition of the kefir extract after uvc-irradiation of hvm-1 cells resulted in a remarkable decrease in intracellular reactive oxygen species ( ros ) which had been increased by uvc irradiation .
the kefir extract also stimulated unscheduled dna synthesis and suppressed uvc-induced apoptosis of hmv-1 cells .
the kefir extract , as well as methyl methanethiosulfonate which is known to enhance the nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) activity , exhibited strong thymine dimer repair-enhancing activity .
epigalocatechin exhibited a weak ner activity but vitamins a , c , and e and catechin showed no ner activity .
the treatment of hmv-1 cells with the kefir extract during or before uvc- irradiation also prevented the generation of ros and thymine dimmer , and suppressed the apoptosis of hmv-1 cells , suggesting that application of kefir can prevent uv damage .
the restoration of normal phenotype , such as reduction of growth rate , recovery of contact inhibition and loss of colony formation ability in soft agar , was achieved by cx43 transfection .
therefore , we conclude that elevated serum ferritin in sera of nsclc patients is the result of inflammation and oxidative stress rather than body iron overload .
administration of fe-nta ( 10 mg/kg bd wt , i.p. ) to swiss albino mice induced marked oxidative stress in kidney , evident from augmentation in renal metallothionein ( mt ) expression , depletion of glutathione content and activities of antioxidant and phase ii metabolizing enzymes , and enhancement in production of aldehyde products such as 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal .
fe-nta also significantly activated nuclear factor kappa b ( nfkappab ) and upregulated the expression of downstream genes : cyclooxygenase 2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase and enhancing the production of proinflammatory cytokines : tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) and interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) .
however , feeding of 0.5% and 1% silymarin diet conferred a significant protection against fe-nta induced oxidative stress and inflammation .
it further augmented mt expression , restored the antioxidant armory , ameliorated nfkappab activation and decreased the expression of proinflammatory mediators .
from these results , it could be concluded that silymarin markedly protects against chemically induced renal cancer and acts plausibly by virtue of its antioxidant , anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative activities .
kcs are important for the hepatic immune system , acting as phagocytes or antigen-presenting cells ( apcs ) .
we found that kcs in nucling-ko mice were apoptotic possibly through the up-regulation of tnfalpha .
conclusions we found a glycolytic phenotype in a high percentage of breast cancer samples .
inhibition of glycolysis might evolve as a future option for breast cancer therapy .
results the immune microenvironment within tumours was found to be heterogeneous , although globally more inert compared to the adjacent non-tumour liver tissue .
univariate analysis in 61 patients identified a group of innate immune genes whose expression within tumours is positively associated with patient survival .
importantly , proliferating immune cells , predominantly nk and t cells , are present in tumours of patients with longer survival , and exclusively in areas devoid of proliferating tumour cells .
conclusions hence , an inflammatory immune microenvironment within hcc tumours could be an important means to control tumour progression via til activation and proliferation .
results the size and number of intestinal crypts increased in gucy2c(-/-) mice ; the associated epithelial cells showed accelerated proliferation , increased glycolysis , and reduced oxidative phosphorylation , which was reversed by oral administration of cgmp .
conversely , activating guanylyl cyclase c in human colon cancer cells delayed cell-cycle progression , decreased dna synthesis and colony formation , reduced glycolysis , and increased mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate production .
disruption of akt activity , pharmacologically or genetically , reduced dna synthesis , proliferation , and glycolysis , and increased mitochondrial biogenesis .
taken together , the present study clearly shows the synergistic anti-inflammatory as well as anti-oxidative stress effects of cur and pufa .
while proliferation of pten-positive cells was insensitive to increases in glucose concentration beyond 2.5mm , pten-null cells significantly increased proliferation with increasing glucose concentration across the normal physiologic range to approximately 10mm , coinciding with a shift to glycolysis and " glucose addiction " .
this demonstrates that the impact of loss of function of pten is modified by glucose concentration , and may be relevant to epidemiologic results linking hyperglycemia to cancer risk and cancer mortality .
prevention of hsc70 secretion by cath d overexpression was associated with the formation of multilayer cell cultures , thus indicating a loss of contact inhibition .
when cells were treated with manganese for 24h , ros dose-dependently increased while antioxidant intracellular gsh decreased .
with the generation of ros , the increased activity of caspase-3 was shown , and was followed by chromatin condensation and breakage , which is an indication of the cellular apoptotic process .
ros also triggered pro-inflammatory responses in cultured t98g cells , which were demonstrated by the increased gene expression and protein levels of il-6 and il-8 .
furthermore , recent data about the cellular mechanisms of pdgf-driven glioma progression and maintenance indicate that pdgf may be required , unexpectedly , to override cell contact inhibition and promote glioma cell infiltration rather than to stimulate cell proliferation .
increased in akt phosphorylation was concurrent with the decrease in ros scavenger sod-1 levels .
tnfalpha mediated increase in akt phosphorylation was dependent on oxidative stress as akt phosphorylation was abrogated in the presence of ros inhibitor and elevated in cells transfected with sod-1 sirna .
also , we report for the first time a ros dependent interaction between pakt and iqgap-1 in tnfalpha treated cells .
together , these results suggest that tnfalpha induced oxidative stress affects akt activation to regulate actin organization and growth of glioma cells .
tem5 expression was not induced by a variety of soluble angiogenic factors , including vegf and bfgf , in subconfluent endothelial cells .
an excess of the soluble tem5 extracellular domain or an inhibitory monoclonal tem5 antibody blocked contact inhibition of endothelial cell proliferation resulting in multilayered islands within the endothelial monolayer and increased vessel density during capillary formation .
based on our results we conclude that tem5 expression during capillary morphogenesis is induced by the small gtpase rac and mediates contact inhibition of proliferation in endothelial cells .
herein , we proposed an epigenetic mechanism of the warburg effect .
fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase-1 ( fbp1 ) , which functions to antagonize glycolysis was downregulated through nf-kappab pathway in ras-transformed nih3t3 cells .
restoration of fbp1 expression reduced growth and glycolysis in gastric cancer cells .
such an important epigenetic link between glycolysis and carcinogenesis partly explains the warburg effect .
results the experiments identified glycolysis as crucial for atp production in gliomas .
in addition , atp production by mitochondrial activity did not significantly contribute to atp production and carnosine was identified to be an inhibitor of the vital anaerobic glycolysis .
discussion carnosine might be considered as a potential drug for the treatment of malignant glioma or other tumors since it inhibits the glycolytic energy metabolism that is crucial for cancer cells and malignant gliomas as shown in the current study .
the hepatoprotective effect of ginsan was attributed to induction of anti-oxidant protein contents , such as superoxide dismutase ( sod ) , catalase , and glutathione peroxidase ( gpx ) as well as restoration of the hepatic glutathione ( gsh ) concentration .
the marked increase of proinflammatory cytokines ( il-1beta , ifn-gamma ) and chemokines ( mcp-1 , mip-2beta , kc ) in ccl(4) treated mice was additionally attenuated by ginsan , thereby preventing leukocyte infiltration and local inflammation .
our results suggest that ginsan effectively prevent liver injury , mainly through downregulation of oxidative stress and inflammatory response .
third , inhibition of glycolysis with iodoacetic acid reduced atp levels at a much faster rate in h-ras(q61l) transformed cells than in the vector control cells .
in the human ht29cl16e colonic carcinoma cell line , induction of goblet cell differentiation by contact inhibition of growth depended on the loss of jagged1-mediated notch activation , with signaling through notch1 and notch2 acting redundantly .
these effects were significantly inhibited by the addition of catalase and further suppressed by the combination of catalase and superoxide dismutase .
homocysteine increased mast cell chymase expression and activity through the mechanism of oxidative stress .
our results suggest that there is a biochemical link between oxidative stress and the local ang ii-forming system .
uok 262 provides a unique in vitro and in vivo preclinical model for studying the bioenergetics of the warburg effect in human cancer .
we observed the loss of contact inhibition and anchorage independent growth in cells exposed to du after 24 h .
in contrast , intratumoral delivery of vsv induces an acute proinflammatory reaction , which quickly resolves concomitantly with virus clearance .
there is , however , a strong correlation between viral gene expression , induction of proinflammatory reaction in the tumor and in vivo therapy .
overall , our results suggest that acute innate antiviral immune response , which rapidly clears vsv from b16ova tumors , is associated with the therapy observed in this model .
therefore , the antiviral immune response to an oncolytic virus mediates an intricate balance between safety , restriction of oncolysis and , potentially , significant immune-mediated antitumor therapy .
activation of either akt or c-myc leads to the warburg effect as indicated by increased cellular glucose uptake , glycolysis , and lactate generation .
hence , although both akt and c-myc promote aerobic glycolysis , they differentially affect mitochondrial functions and render cells susceptible to the perturbation of cellular metabolic programs .
il-15 blocked sepsis-induced apoptosis of nk cells , dendritic cells , and cd8 t cells .
il-15 also decreased sepsis-induced gut epithelial apoptosis .
il-15 therapy increased the abundance of antiapoptotic bcl-2 while decreasing proapoptotic bim and puma .
in conclusion , il-15 prevents two immunopathologic hallmarks of sepsis , namely , apoptosis and immunosuppression , and improves survival in two different models of sepsis .
these results support the hypothesis that tnf secretion by human monocytes depends on glycolysis and suggest that la and acidification may be involved in the suppression of tnf secretion in the tumor environment .
comparative proteomic analysis of proliferating versus quiescent hepatocytes validated the importance of contact inhibition , identifying 68 differently expressed gene products , representing 49 unique proteins .
finally , we found that : ( i ) cell cycle arrest induced by mek1/2 inhibition is not sufficient to induce hepatic product expression ; ( ii ) constitutive activation of beta-catenin counteracts the contact inhibition-induced terminal differentiation .
we demonstrated that c. albicans significantly increased metastasis of b16m cells with all three fungal injection routes .
in these mice , c. albicans also potentiated the growth of established micro-metastases .
significantly , the fungal challenge had pro-metastatic effects without the c. albicans being able to reach the liver , suggesting that soluble factors can promote metastasis in remote sites .
mouse treatment with antifungal ketoconazol abrogated hepatic tnf-alpha stimulation by c. albicans and prevented the enhancement of hepatic metastasis in fungal challenged-mice .
therefore , the pro-inflammatory microenvironment generated by the host's systemic response to c. albicans stimulates circulating cancer cells to metastasize in the liver .
invasion by the tuberin-null cells is mediated by mmp7 .
examination of lam tissues shows the expression of cleaved -catenin products and mmp7 consistent with a model that tuberin-deficient cells acquire invasive properties through a -catenin-dependent mechanism , which may underlie the development of lam .
pcna and tunel immunohistochemistry of tumors revealed eugenol to ameliorate cell proliferation and elevate apoptosis respectively .
initiation with dmba led to a significant upregulation of p53 expression with a concomitant increase in p21(waf1) levels in epidermal cells indicating induction of damage to the dna .
to ascertain the molecular mechanisms implicated in the antitumor promoting activity of eugenol , its effect was investigated on markers of tumor promotion and inflammation : odc activity and inos and cox-2 expression , and on levels of proinflammatory cytokines ( il-6 , tnf-alpha , and pge(2) ) .
from these results , it could be concluded that eugenol markedly protects against chemically induced skin cancer and acts possibly by virtue of its antiproliferative , anti-inflammatory , and antioxidant activities .
their bioinformatic analysis indicated that biological functions linked to immunity , inflammation , and cell death were among the most affected by bap in human macrophages and that the ahr and p53 signaling pathways were the most significant canonical pathways activated by the pah .
ahr and p53 implications were moreover fully confirmed by the prevention of bap-related upregulation of some selected target genes by ahr silencing or the use of pifithrin-alpha , an inhibitor of pah bioactivation-related dna damage/p53 pathways .
overall , these data , through identifying genes and signaling pathways targeted by pahs in human macrophages , may contribute to better understand the molecular basis of the immunotoxicity of these environmental contaminants .
we therefore hypothesize that the erralpha-prc complex plays a role in arresting the cell cycle through the regulation of oxidative phosphorylation in oxidative cells , and through some other pathway in glycolytic cells .
in contrast , no significant differences in the number of rad51-expressing cells were detected when metastases were compared with adenomas and nonneoplastic gland .
rad51 expression in carcinomas was correlated with expression in metastases but not with histologic grade .
in conclusion , the increased number of rad51-expressing cells in carcinomas might indicate genomic instability in these cells .
nevertheless , the increased rad51 mrna expression in metastases could not be confirmed by immunohistochemistry .
we now show in two different cell types ( neoplastic and nonneoplastic ) that both proliferation and aerobic glycolysis are prevented by overexpression of cdh1 and enhanced by its silencing .
furthermore , we have coexpressed cdh1 with pfkfb3--either wild-type or a mutant form resistant to ubiquitylation by apc/c-cdh1--or with the glycolytic enzyme 6-phosphofructo-1-kinase and demonstrated that whereas glycolysis is essential for cell proliferation , its initiation in the presence of active cdh1 does not result in proliferation .
our experiments indicate that the proliferative response , regardless of whether it occurs in normal or neoplastic cells , is dependent on a decrease in the activity of apc/c-cdh1 , which activates both proliferation and glycolysis .
we show that the activity of oxidative phosphorylation defines the rate of glucose utilization by aerobic glycolysis .
the aggressive cellular phenotype , which is highly glycolytic , is bound to the deregulated expression of genes involved in metabolic processes , the regulation of the cell cycle , apoptosis , angiogenesis and cell adhesion .
remarkably , the molecular and ultrastructural analysis of the tumors derived from the three hct116 cell lines under study highlight that tumor promotion inevitably requires the selection of cancer cells with a repressed biogenesis and functional activity of mitochondria , i.e. the highly glycolytic phenotype is selected for tumor development .
there was a wide inter-individual variation in endogenous lymphocyte dna strand breaks ( 8-fold variation ) , in damage after a challenge with h2o2 ( 16-fold variation ) and in dna repair ( 41-fold variation ) measured using the comet assay .
when stratified into tertiles according to the pre-supplementation level of endogenous dna damage , there was a statistically significant decrease in dna damage after supplementation in the tertile with the highest pre-supplementation level of damage .
there was no effect of supplementation on ber .
endogenous dna damage level before supplementation was significantly different ( p = 0.037 ) between the three genotypes for the val16ala single nucleotide polymorphism in manganese superoxide dismutase ( rs4880 ) with individuals homozygous/wild type showing less damage than those carrying the alanine variant .
through single nucleotide polymorphism array-based fine mapping of del11q , we identified frequent monoallelic loss of mre11 and h2afx in addition to atm , indicative of compound del11q-resident gene defects in the dna double-strand break response .
here , we show that inactivation of dna damage repair pathways signals cs-mediated apoptosis in crypt sccs , presumably via persistent unrepaired dna double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) .
genetic loss of function of sensors and transducers of dna dsb repair confers the cs-mediated lethal pathway in intestines of sv129/b6mre11(atld1/atld1) and c57bl/6(prkdc/scid) ( severe combined immunodeficient ) mice exposed to low-dose radiation .
these studies suggest unrepaired dna dsbs as causative in target reordering in intestinal sccs .
as such , we provide an in vivo model of dna damage repair that is standardized , can be exploited to understand allele-specific regulation in intact tissue , and is pharmacologically tractable .
here we demonstrate that cell surface expression of ceacam1 on confluent a549 human lung adenocarcinoma cells plays a critical role in differentiated , contact-inhibited cell growth .
furthermore , we show for the first time that ceacam6 acts as an inducer of cellular proliferation in a549 cells , likely by interfering with the contact-inhibiting signal triggered by ceacam1-4l , leading to undifferentiated anchorage-independent cell growth .
taken together , our data suggest that post-confluent contact inhibition is established and maintained by ceacam1-4l , but disturbances of ceacam1 signalling by ceacam1-4s and other ceacams lead to undifferentiated cell growth and malignant transformation .
random oligonucleotide-primed synthesis ( rops ) revealed a significant increase in uracil misincorporation and dna single strand breaks , while spectral karyotype analysis ( sky ) identified five novel chromosomal rearrangements in cells grown with mild folate depletion .
conclusions overexpression of rad51 , a key component of the homologous dna repair pathway , is associated with poor breast cancer outcome .
brc1 binds gammah2a to form spontaneous and dna damage-induced nuclear foci .
spontaneous brc1 foci colocalize with ribosomal dna repeats , a region prone to fork pausing and genomic instability , whereas dna damage-induced brc1 foci colocalize with dsb response factors. gammah2a binding is critical for brc1 function .
from these results , brc1 docking to gammah2a emerges as a critical chromatin-specific response to replication-associated dna damage .
the results showed that aldosterone concentrations starting from 10 nm ( 360 ng/dl ) caused a significant increase of dna damage monitored with the comet assay in llc-pk1 , while there was no change in cell vitality and proliferation .
the micronucleus frequency test revealed that 10 nm aldosterone also leads to the formation of micronuclei .
further evidence for oxidative stress-induced dna damage was its reversibility by the antioxidants tempol and catalase .
addition of the steroidal mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist spironolactone or the novel selective nonsteroidal antagonist ( r)-br-4628 reduced the dna damage and the amount of superoxide radicals indicating a receptor-dependent process .
jm1 cells were found to have a high rate of aerobic glycolysis in both two-dimensional culture and in the bioreactor , with 85% of the ( 13)c label from uniformly labeled ( 13)c-glucose being present as either lactate or alanine after 23 h .
cells treated with photoactivated mvp showed strongly stimulated poly(adp-ribosyl)ation , an early dna-damage response in mammals .
photoactivated mvp was able to induce single- and double-strand breaks in dna , with a predominance of single-stand breaks .
the presence of double-strand breaks was further confirmed using a 53pb1 focus analysis .
finally , photoactivated mvp was shown to be toxic to human cells and induced caspase-independent cell death .
these results suggest that photoactivated mvp carries an important toxic load able to damage dna and induce cell death .
in order to characterize the role of gsh in the joining of dna dsbs , we induced dna lesions with bleomycin ( blem ) in conjunction with either high- or low-let radiation ( x-rays ) since the chemistry of the free dna ends created by blem and x-rays is similar .
our results show that the frequency of chromosomal aberration increases with increased let .
heavy ion exposed cells show a higher frequency of ca over time than do x-irradiated cells .
an analysis of the first post-irradiation mitosis of exposed cho cells shows that high-let radiation induces more breaks than exchange-type aberrations and exogenous gsh has no influence on high-let radiation-induced dna damage .
this could be attributed to differences in repair kinetics and qualitative differences in the dna lesions induced by blem and high-let radiation .
it is observed in particular that nanoparticles enhance strongly lethal damage in dna , with an efficiency factor close to 2 for double strand breaks .
overexpression of tktl1 increased the production of fructose-6-phosphate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate , in turn elevating the production of pyruvate and lactate , resulting in the normoxic stabilization of the malignancy-promoting transcription factor hif1alpha and the upregulation of downstream glycolytic enzymes .
conclusion tktl1 is a novel candidate oncogene that is epigenetically activated by aberrant hypomethlation and contributes to a malignant phenotype through altered glycolytic metabolism and hif1alpha accumulation .
both brit1(-/-) mice and mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( mefs ) were hypersensitive to gamma-irradiation .
brit1(-/-) mefs and t lymphocytes exhibited severe chromatid breaks and reduced rad51 foci formation after irradiation .
notably , brit1(-/-) mice were infertile and meiotic homologous recombination was impaired .
in mutant spermatocytes , dna double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) were formed , but localization of rad51 or brca2 to meiotic chromosomes was severely impaired .
collectively , our brit1-null mouse model demonstrates that brit1 is essential for maintaining genomic stability in vivo to protect the hosts from both programmed and irradiation-induced dna damages , and its depletion causes a failure in both mitotic and meiotic recombination dna repair via impairing rad51/brca2's function and as a result leads to infertility and genomic instability in mice .
we propose that the brca1-ctip complex plays a role in the nuclease-mediated elimination of oligonucleotides covalently bound to polypeptides from dsbs , thereby facilitating subsequent dsb repair .
no significant differences in induction of apoptosis or necrosis or dna dsb or in decreased survival were observed after ( 211)at-anti-cd33 ( 1:1,090 ) versus go ( 1:1 ) treatment .
results treatment of xp-a and xp-c cells with cosmomycin d resulted in apoptosis in a time-dependent manner , with highest apoptosis levels observed 96 h after treatment .
the broad caspase inhibitor z-vad-fmk strongly inhibited apoptosis in these cells , and dna damage induced by cosmomycin d was confirmed by alkaline comet assay .
conclusions cosmomycin d induced time-dependent apoptosis in nucleotide excision repair-deficient fibroblasts .
therefore , phosphorothioate linkages were incorporated to protect the probes from nonspecific nucleases , and the base excision repair activity was successfully detected in hela cells .
here , we study the bioenergetic adaptation to the oxphos inhibitor oligomycin in a group of cancer cells .
we found that oligomycin at 100 ng/ml completely inhibits oxphos activity in 1 h and induces various levels of glycolysis gains by 6 h , from which we calculate the bioenergetic organizations of cancer cells .
in glycolysis-dominant cells , oligomycin does not induce much energy stress as measured by glycolysis acceleration , atp imbalance , ampk activation , ampk substrate acetyl-coa carboxylase phosphorylation at ser(79) , and cell growth inhibition .
after ampk activation is completed , oligomycin-induced increase of acetyl-coa carboxylase phosphorylation at ser(79) is still detected , and cellular atp is back at preoligomycin treatment levels by sustained elevation of glycolysis .
we show that cyclin-c-directed , prb-dependent g(0) exit activates the non-homologous end joining pathway of dna repair ( nhej ) in postmitotic neurons .
using rna interference , we found that abrogation of cyclin-c-mediated exit from g(0) compromised dna repair but did not initiate apoptosis .
forced g(1) entry combined with prevention of g(1) --&gt ; s progression triggered nhej activation even in the absence of dna lesions , but did not induce apoptosis in contrast to unrestricted progression through g(1) --&gt ; s. we conclude that g(0) --&gt ; g(1) transition is functionally significant for nhej repair in postmitotic neurons .
these findings reveal the importance of cell-cycle activation for controlling both dna repair and apoptosis in postmitotic neurons , and underline the particular role of g(1) --&gt ; s progression in apoptotic signaling , providing new insights into the mechanisms of dna damage response ( ddr ) in postmitotic neurons .
here , we demonstrate that the wild-type p53-induced phosphatase 1 ( wip1 ) also dephosphorylates gamma-h2ax at serine 139 in vitro and in vivo .
overexpression of wip1 reduces formation of gamma-h2ax foci in response to ionizing and ultraviolet radiation and blocks recruitment of mdc1 ( mediator of dna damage checkpoint 1 ) and 53bp1 ( p53 binding protein 1 ) to dna damage foci .
finally , these inhibitory effects of wip1 on gamma-h2ax are accompanied by wip1 suppression of dna double strand break repair .
transfection of bi-1 sirna into cells before injection blocked lung metastasis. in vitro , the overexpression of bi-1 increased cell mobility and invasiveness , with highly increased glucose consumption and cytosolic accumulation of lactate and pyruvate , but decreased mitochondrial o(2) consumption and atp production .
in both in vitro and in vivo experiments , c-terminal deleted ( cdeltabi-1 ) cells showed similar results to control cells , suggesting that the c-terminal motif is required for bi-1-associated alterations of glucose metabolism , nhe activation and cancer metastasis .
these findings strongly suggest that bi-1 reduces extracellular ph and regulates metastasis by altering glucose metabolism and activating nhe , with the c-terminal tail having a pivotal role in these processes .
the results clearly show that the comet tail is formed by extended dna loops : the loop extension , being reversible when the dna torsional constraint remains in the loops , is favored when the constraint is relaxed .
the kinetics of the comet formation in the case of a high radiation dose points out that accumulation of the single-strand breaks causes dna fragmentation .
in contrast to the neutral comet assay , the alkaline comet assay is not related to the chromatin loops .
our results imply that the alkaline treatment induces detachment of the loops from the nuclear matrix , and the comet tail is formed by ssdna fragments , the ends of which are pulled out from the comet head by electric force .
we suggest that the kinetic approach can be considered as an important improvement of the comet assay .
here , we describe a synthetic lethal interaction between the c. elegans helicase helq-1 and rad-51 paralog rfs-1 , which results in a block to meiotic dsb repair after strand invasion .
whereas rad-51-ssdna filaments assemble at meiotic dsbs with normal kinetics in helq-1 , rfs-1 double mutants , persistence of rad-51 foci and genetic interactions with rtel-1 suggest a failure to disassemble rad-51 from strand invasion intermediates .
these results indicate that two compensating activities are required to promote postsynaptic rad-51 filament disassembly , which are collectively essential for completion of meiotic dsb repair .
dpdt generated single- and double-strand dna breaks in v79 cells , both with and without metabolic activation , as revealed by alkaline and neutral comet assays .
moreover , an induction of oxidative dna base damage was indicated by a modified comet assay using formamidopyrimidine dna glycosylase and endonuclease iii .
pre-incubation with n-acetylcysteine reduced dpdt's oxidative , genotoxic and mutagenic effects in yeast and v79 cells .
our results suggest that the toxic and mutagenic properties of dpdt may stem from its ability to disturb the redox balance of the cell , which leads to oxidative stress and the induction of dna damage .
importantly , we show that plk1 also phosphorylates the 53bp1-binding checkpoint kinase chk2 to inactivate its fha domain and inhibit its kinase activity in mammalian cells .
thus , a mitotic kinase-mediated negative feedback loop regulates the atm-chk2 branch of the dna damage signaling network by phosphorylating conserved sites in 53bp1 and chk2 to inactivate checkpoint signaling and control checkpoint duration .
we found , unexpectedly , that b-cell activation for csr generates substantial isd in both s mu and s gamma1 and that isd in both is greatly increased by the absence of c-nhej .
we discuss the implications of these findings for a-ej in normal and abnormal dsb repair .
these findings extend the links between alternative splicing and cancer , and begin to define some of the factors responsible for the switch to aerobic glycolysis .
loss of nefh caused up-regulation of pyruvate kinase-m2 type and down-regulation of pyruvate dehydrogenase , via activation of the akt/beta-catenin pathway , resulting in enhanced aerobic glycolysis and mitochondrial dysfunction .
the acceleration of glycolysis and mitochondrial dysfunction in nefh-knockdown cells was suppressed in the absence of beta-catenin expression , and was decreased by the treatment of 2-deoxyglucose , a glycolytic inhibitor , or api-2 , an akt inhibitor .
loss of nefh activates the akt/beta-catenin pathway and increases glycolysis and mitochondrial dysfunction .
cancer cells with methylated nefh can be targeted for destruction with specific inhibitors of deregulated downstream pathways .
significant dna damage immediately after exposure to sevoflurane was observed in leukocytes .
however , none of the tested tissues revealed signs of repair until 24 h after the exposure .
in contrast , significant depletion of glucose and inositol in polyps revealed that glycolysis may be critical in early tumorigenesis .
we estimated the risk of glioma ( n = 362 ) , meningioma ( n = 134 ) , and acoustic neuroma ( n = 69 ) in non-hispanic whites with respect to 36 single nucleotide polymorphisms from 26 genes involved in dna repair in a hospital-based , case-control study conducted by the national cancer institute .
our results suggest that common dna repair variants may affect the risk of adult brain tumors , especially meningioma .
in this report , we show that nf2 knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts lost contact inhibition of cell proliferation and contained significantly increased canonical wnt signaling .
thus , rac1-mediated canonical wnt signaling is essential for the loss of contact inhibition in nf2-deficient cells .
we report that a new irreversible pi3k inhibitor , px-866 , shows potent inhibitory effects on the pi3k/akt signaling pathway in glioblastoma .
px-866 did not induce any apoptosis in glioma cells ; however , an increase in autophagy was observed .
our studies affirm that the pi3k pathway is a highly specific molecular target for therapies for glioblastoma and other cancers with aberrant pi3k/pten expression .
the resulting high-level fat production from increased expression of these genes likely contributes to an abnormal cellular energy metabolism based on aerobic glycolysis .
we show that in response to elevated ros , atm activates the tsc2 tumor suppressor via the lkb1/ampk metabolic pathway in the cytoplasm to repress mtorc1 and induce autophagy .
our results identify a cytoplasmic pathway for ros-induced atm activation of tsc2 to regulate mtorc1 signaling and autophagy , identifying an integration node for the cellular damage response with key pathways involved in metabolism , protein synthesis , and cell survival .
results the analysis resulted in identification of a 1975c&gt;t mutation in exon 17 , resulting in substitution of arginine residue with stop codon at codon 659. 655a&gt;g substitution was also observed , resulting in replacement of isoleucine with valine at codon 219 .
similar analysis on 250 ethnically matched control subjects revealed complete absence of r659x mutation , while i219v variant was found in 9.8 per cent of the controls .
results a total of 514 genes was greater than 1.5-fold differentially expressed in the lps induced lung inflammation model. 394 of the 514 were up regulated genes mostly involved in cell cycle and immune/inflammation related processes , such as cytokine/chemokine activity and signalling .
notably , the number of genes and pathways that were differentially expressed , was reduced when animals were depleted from circulating neutrophils , confirming the central role of neutrophils in the inflammatory response .
furthermore , there was a significant correlation between the differentially expressed gene list and the promutagenic dna lesion m1dg , suggesting that it is the extent of the immune response which drives genetic instability in the inflamed lung .
several genes that were specifically regulated by the presence of activated neutrophils could be identified and these were mostly involved in interferon signalling , oxidative stress response and cell cycle progression .
the latter possibly refers to a higher rate of cell turnover in the inflamed lung with neutrophils , suggesting that the neutrophil influx is associated with a higher risk for the accumulation and fixation of mutations .
conclusion gene expression profiling identified specific genes and pathways that are related to neutrophilic inflammation and could be associated to cancer development and indicate an active role of neutrophils in mediating the lps induced inflammatory response in the mouse lung .
the top-ranked down-regulated genes in the treated cell lines included those related to receptor and kinase activity , signal transduction , apoptosis , rna processing , protein metabolism and transport , cell cycle and transcription .
it suppressed drug-related cdk1 activity with a less elevation of regulator proteins such as cyclin b1 , cdk7 and reduced caspase activation and parp cleavage compared to the efficiency observed in normoxic condition , which were significantly relative with hypoxia-driven inhibition of p53 and p-erk1/2 activation .
the mechanism involves formation of a complex of ahr and e2f1 on the regulatory region in the e2f1 target gene , followed by recruitment of coactivator activator for thyroid hormone and retinoid receptors ( actr ) .
consequently , the results in this study indicate the physiological function of ahr as a potent transcriptional coactivator of e2f1-dependent transcription and implicate the ahr-e2f1 interaction as a part of the mechanism by which ahr/arnt promotes cell proliferation .
treatment with gna dose and time dependently induced a549 cells apoptosis , arrested the cells to g0/g1 phase in vitro and down-regulated the expression of cyclin d1 and cyclooxygenase ( cox)-2 in mrna level .
reduction of o-glcnacation through rna interference of ogt in breast cancer cells leads to inhibition of tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo and is associated with decreased cell-cycle progression and increased expression of the cell-cycle inhibitor p27(kip1) .
elevation of p27(kip1) was associated with decreased expression and activity of the oncogenic transcription factor foxm1 , a known regulator of p27(kip1) stability through transcriptional control of skp2 .
these findings identify o-glcnac as a novel mechanism through which alterations in glucose metabolism regulate cancer growth and invasion and suggest that ogt may represent novel therapeutic targets for breast cancer .
in at cells , however , a significant number of gamma-h2ax foci were still observed at 40 h .
the rbes found in the at cells after heavy-ion irradiation were consistent with the effects predicted from the presence of non-homologous end joining defects .
the dsbs remaining after heavy-ion irradiation suggested defects in the at cells ' dsb repair ability .
these data suggest that ( a ) an antioxidant micronutrient cocktail can modulate biomarkers of oxidative stress and inflammation in humans and ( b ) the effects of antioxidant micronutrient supplementation on biomarkers of inflammation and oxidative stress may differ according to smoking status .
though the levels of p27 are increased after hpv e7 expression , most of the p27 protein localized in the cytoplasm and have no function on cell cycle arrest and contact inhibition .
the results indicated that e7-p27 interaction not only abolished the p27's cell cycle inhibitory function by sequestering it to the cytoplasm , but also endow the cell with invasive property which is the feature of malignant cells .
we believe that sunitinib therapy resulted in necrosis of multiple pleural-based pulmonary nodules with central cavernization and ultimately rupture with bronchopleural fistula formation .
results ec treatment induced nuclear foci of gammah2ax , conjugated ubiquitin , and rad51 in a substantial amount of cases .
astaxanthin decreased a dna damage biomarker after 4 wk but did not affect lipid peroxidation .
plasma c-reactive protein concentration was lower ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) on wk 8 in subjects given 2 mg astaxanthin .
conclusion therefore , dietary astaxanthin decreases a dna damage biomarker and acute phase protein , and enhances immune response in young healthy females .
pp1 induced in 6/11 t-all cell lines a survival disadvantage resulting from a cell cycle arrest in the g(1/0) phase in thymic lymphoblastic cells and apoptosis induction in the immature cell line hsb-2 , respectively .
studies of cell-cycle progression showed that the anti-proliferative effect of fan was associated with an increase in the g1/s phase of pc3 cells .
western blot results indicated that fan-induced g1/s phase arrest was mediated through inhibition of cyclin-regulated signaling pathways .
fan induced p27 expression and inhibited cyclin d and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( pcna ) expression in pc3 cells .
increased exposure time to fan caused apoptosis of pc3 cells , which was associated with up-regulation of pro-apoptotic proteins bax and caspase 3 , and down-regulation of anti-apoptotic protein bcl-2 .
the electron microscopic examination showed cell shrinkage , nuclear fragmentation and pronounced chromatin condensation , sometimes formed crescent chromatin condensation attached to the nuclear membrane .
the results of flow cytometry showed that : after sw480 cells were treated with 0 , 20 , 40 , 80 microg/ml genistein for 48 h , the fi values of pcna were 1.49 +/- 0.02 , 1.28 +/- 0.04 , 1.14 +/- 0.03 , and 0.93 +/- 0.08 ; the fi values of vegf were 1.75 +/- 0.02 , 1.34 +/- 0.06 , 1.32 +/- 0.04 , and 1.23 +/- 0.04 ; the fluorescence index ( fi ) values of p21 were 1.26 +/- 0.05 , 1.36 +/- 0.06 , 1.61 +/- 0.03 , and 1.73 +/- 0.03 , respectively .
there were statistically significant differences between the control group and each treatment group ( p &lt ; 0.05 or p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
the scores of immunohistochemical staining of pcna and vegf proteins were decreased , while p21 increased .
conclusion genistein can inhibit the growth of colon cancer cells via apoptosis induction and cell cycle arrest at g(2)/m phase .
the anti-tumor mechanisms of genistein may be related with the down-regulation of expression of vegf and pcna , and up-regulation of the expression of p21 .
levels of these inflammatory factors were in part restored in pdac after tumor resection , whereas the levels of dcs were impaired in the majority of these patients approximately 12 weeks after tumor removal .
conclusions our findings points to the involvement of inflammation in the destruction of the blood mdcs and pdcs .
in this study , the addition of metformin to 2-deoxyglucose ( 2dg ) inhibited mitochondrial respiration and glycolysis in prostate cancer cells leading to a severe depletion in atp .
at the cellular level , the combination of metformin and 2dg induced p53-dependent apoptosis via the energy sensor pathway amp kinase , and the reexpression of a functional p53 in p53-deficient prostate cancer cells restored caspase-3 activity .
finally , metformin inhibited 2dg-induced autophagy , decreased beclin 1 expression , and triggered a switch from a survival process to cell death .
tumor necrosis , microscopic vascular invasion , and sinus fat invasion are prognostic factors for death from renal carcinoma which are associated to tnm classification , fuhrman grade , and tumor size .
the tumors with recurrence and metastasis showed more necrosis , a mitotic count greater than 4/10hpf , and in one case perineural infiltration .
all the tumours were er , pr and her-2-neu negative .
results patients with urcc were more likely to have regional lymph node involvement ( p &lt;.001 ) , higher grade ( p &lt;.001 ) , tumor necrosis ( p &lt;.001 ) , and sarcomatoid differentiation ( p &lt;.001 ) as compared to patients with ccrcc .
evaluation of a tissue array revealed oligodendroglioma-like features , pilomyxoid features , infiltration , and necrosis more commonly in specimens from younger patients ( below the median patient age of 10 years ) .
immunohistochemical staining for the hh pathway components ptch and gli1 and the proliferation marker ki67 demonstrated that patients diagnosed before the age of 10 had higher staining indices than those diagnosed after the age of 10 .
by recovering and molecularly analyzing individual repair products from wild-type and mus309 male pre-meiotic germline cells , we demonstrated that the dmblm helicase is involved in homologous recombination downstream of strand invasion .
this assay can be adapted to test the roles of numerous dna metabolic factors in dna double-strand gap repair .
similarly , the 5htr1a antagonist induced apoptotic changes in pc3 cells only at 10(-4)m , while the 5htr1b antagonist induced necrosis at 10(-4)m in all cell lines .
conclusions serotonin receptor antagonists and agonists as well as mlt influence viability and apoptosis of pca cell lines at supraphysiologic concentrations .
mitotic figures , necrosis , invasive growth , and profound nuclear pleomorphism were absent .
the alkaline agarose gel electrophoresis assays pointed that ( i ) uva induced dna breaks and fpg mutant was the most sensitive ; ( ii ) sncl(2)-induced dna strand breaks were higher than those from uva and nfo mutant had the slowest repair kinetics ; ( iii ) uva + sncl(2) promoted an increase in dna breaks than sncl(2) and , again , nfo mutant displayed the slowest repair kinetics .
there was also increased necrosis in tumours treated with brivanib alaninate .
conclusion historically , tamoxifen has a role in blocking angiogenesis as well as the blockade of the er .
oxidative stress was evaluated in terms of mtt reduction , protein peroxidation and reactive oxygen species ( ros ) formation .
the results of this experiment indicate that bap , an ahr agonist , can significantly increase receptor and cyp1a1 expression and induce oxidative stress in human skin , confirming the involvement of this pathway in the pathogenesis of tissue damage due to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons .
it caused g2/m cell-cycle arrest that was accompanied by the down-regulation of cyclin-dependent kinase 1 ( cdk1 ) and up-regulation of p21 expression .
it induced apoptosis and elevated the expressions of pro-apoptotic factors tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , tnf-related apoptosis inducing receptor 1 ( trailr1 ) , trailr2 , bad , bak , and bid , and decreased the expression of anti-apoptotic bcl-2 .
activation of caspase-8 and caspase-9 suggested that both extrinsic and intrinsic pathways are involved in the induction of apoptosis .
mitogen-activated protein kinases ( mapks ) , including erk , jnk , and p38 , were activated after treatment with cantharidin .
inhibition of jnk , but not erk or p38 , alleviated the cytotoxity effect of cantharidin , suggesting cantharidin exerted its anticancer effect through the jnk-dependent way .
the growth-promoting effects of bj3z cells are equivalent to those of estradiol ( e(2) ) .
we show that bj3z cells secrete vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) .
resveratrol significantly improves inflammation score , downregulates the percentage of neutrophils in the mesenteric lymph nodes and lamina propria , and modulates cd3(+) t cells that express tumor necrosis factor-alpha and ifn-gamma .
markers of inflammation and inflammatory stress ( p53 and p53-phospho-ser(15) ) are also downregulated by resveratrol .
results overall 5-year survival was 42.2 % .
mediastinal lymph node involvement , tumor size , incomplete resection , pneumonectomy , presence of necrosis and perineural invasion were significant prognosticators ( p = 0.03 , 0.04 , 0.0001 , 0.046 , 0.0246 , &lt ; 0.0001 , respectively ) .
multivariate analysis revealed that n status , perineural invasion , and the presence of necrosis were independent prognostic factors ( p = 0.006 , p = 0.001 , p = 0.001 , respectively ) .
patients who had stage i tumor with necrosis and perineural invasion had a lower survival rate than those with stage iiia tumor without these histopathological features ( p = 0.04 ) .
the presence of these histopathological characteristics in stage iiia patients was a sign of a poorer prognosis ( p = 0.0001 ) .
conclusions perineural invasion and the presence of necrosis independently indicated a dismal prognosis and their prognostic power is comparable to those of the tnm classification .
ifn- induction in established tumors led to a reduction of cd146(+) endothelial cells and massive necrosis .
together , we show that vascularized tumors can be rejected by local ifn- expression , but that rejection of established tumors was less efficient over time .
overexpression of dhhc20 also caused phenotypic changes consistent with cellular transformation , including colony formation in soft agar , decreased contact inhibition of growth , and increased proliferation under low-serum conditions .
the levels of apoptotic cells were significantly higher in samples from animals in the combined treatment group than those from untreated animals ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
our studies with the nontumorigenic beas-2b cell line suggest that relatively short exposures ( h ) to sublethal cr(vi) doses ( 0.1-1 microm ) may render these cells less sensitive to contact inhibition .
we have also observed a reduced sensitivity to cr(vi)-induced apoptosis shortly after the beginning of exposure to a mildly cytotoxic cr(vi) dose ( 2 microm ) .
in rcc patients , a decreased proliferative response to tumor , associated with defects in jak3/stat5/6 expression that led to increased p27kip1 expression and alterations in the cell cycle , was observed .
these findings suggested that increased secretion of tnfalpha in the tumors , which show high invasive potential , may be one of the facilitating factors for tumor invasion and be responsible from suppression of nk cells .
we demonstrated that the combination of atra and zoledronic acid is a strong inducer of apoptotic related cell death in human androgen-and drug refractory prostate cancer cells du-145 , at either transcriptional or translational levels .
while expression of proapoptotic genes such as tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily ( tnfrsf ) , bad , bax , fas , fadd are induced with the exposure of the combination , expression of antiapoptotic genes or proteins such as members of inhibitor apoptosis family ( iaps ) , mcl-1 , ltbr , p53 and bcl-2 are reduced .
block of nf-kappab signalling by non-destructible ikappabalpha rendered cells resistant to tgf-beta-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) .
functional assays demonstrated reduced or strongly enhanced migration and invasion upon nf-kappab inhibition or activation , respectively .
here , we demonstrate that , in mouse dcs , tlr agonists stimulate a profound metabolic transition to aerobic glycolysis , similar to the warburg metabolism displayed by cancer cells .
the metabolic switch induced by dc activation is antagonized by the antiinflammatory cytokine interleukin-10 .
our data pinpoint tlr-mediated metabolic conversion as essential for dc maturation and function and reveal it as a potential target for intervention in the control of excessive inflammation and inappropriately regulated immune responses .
tio2 plus uva led to pronounced areas of necrosis , elevated indices of apoptosis , delayed tumor growth , and increased survival compared with the tio2-alone control group ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
the inhibitory effect of zlj on cell proliferation of mcf-7 was time- and dose-dependent ; it could retard cells in g0/g1 cell phase ; apoptosis of mcf-7 cell was induced by moderate and high dosage of zlj with revealing of apoptotic body and dna ladder formation .
here we report that epigenetic modifications in aged dna also increase its immunogenicity rendering it more reactive to innate immune system cells such as the dendritic cells .
however , there is significantly decreased global level of methylation suggesting that age-associated hypomethylation of the dna may be the cause of its increased immunogenicity .
increased immunogenicity of self dna may thus be another mechanism that may contribute to the increase in age-associated chronic inflammation , autoimmunity and cancer .
we found that all three reagents are able to activate cell death and pro-inflammatory signaling .
interestingly , inhibition of pkc by goe6983 enabled dr5 to trigger apoptotic signaling in response to trail and also strongly enhanced lexatumumab-mediated cell death .
we found that neither the cell cycle norgammay-h2ax were affected in iip48- and iip49-silenced cells , suggesting that the iip60 chromatin modification complex is not engaged in dna damage signaling upstream of atm .
proinflammtory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) promoted atx expression and secretion selectively in hep3b and huh7 cells , which led to a corresponding increase in lysophospholipase-d activity .
further study showed that secreted enzymatically active atx stimulated hep3b cell invasion .
our observation that links the tnf-alpha/nf-kappab axis and the atx-lpa signaling pathway suggests that atx is likely playing an important role in inflammation related liver tumorigenesis .
results paclitaxel and pirarubicin caused g2/m and g0/g1 cell cycle arrest in mg-63 cells , respectively .
apoptosis of mg-63 cells mediated by paclitaxel was dependent on treatment duration .
interestingly , in cells treated with pirarubicin , apoptosis was related to treatment duration at concentrations of 10(2)-10(3) nm , whereas the effect of treatment duration was less marked at concentrations &gt;10(4)-10(5) nm .
furthermore , paclitaxel and pirarubicin suppressed the expression of pcna , cyclin d1 , cyclin e and bcl-2 , and increased bax expression .
overall , f&amp;v did not affect dna damage and repair measures in lymphocytes .
the number of ugt1a1*28 alleles was inversely associated with sensitivity to gamma -irradiation exposure and dna repair capacity , but a biological mechanism to explain this association is unclear .
a larger sample size is needed to investigate the association between bilirubin concentrations and endogenous dna damage .
with inconsistent findings in the literature , additional dietary intervention studies on the effect of f&amp;v on dna damage and repair are needed .
the inhibition of growth was through apoptosis , and not necrosis , as the amount of apoptotic cells corresponded to the growth inhibition .
androgen receptor levels were also reduced in concert with nkx3.1 , and a marked increase in the basal cell marker p63 was observed .
analyses of the inflammatory infiltrate revealed a classic acute inflammatory response that attained characteristics of a chronic state within fourteen days postinoculation .
comparison of the four prostate lobes revealed clear differences in the extent of inflammation .
these data demonstrate that acute inflammation in response to a bacterial agent in the prostate is associated with a significant diminution in the level of a key regulator of prostate cell proliferation .
these observations provide a plausible mechanism whereby prostate inflammation may establish a local environment conducive to epithelial cell growth .
bap could induce dna damage and reduce cell viability , when compared with pol beta +/+ cells , ic50 of pol beta -/- cells was remarkably lower , dna was prone to damage and more difficult to be repaired , on the other hand , ic50 of pol beta oe cells was obviously higher and the damage effect on dna was weaker and prone to be repaired .
conclusion pol beta played an important role in the repair of dna damage induced by bap , deficiency of pol beta could decrease the dna repair capability of cells , and overexpression of pol beta could help cells response to dna damage and protect cells from death in a certain degree .
downregulation of endogenous lkb1 lead to a facilitated g(1)/s transition , accompanied by a concomitant increase in rb phosphorylation ( ser(807/811) ) .
furthermore , reduced expression of p53 and p16 was observed in lkb1 ablated cells , while no differences were detected for cyclin d1 and cyclin e. these results jointly suggest that endogenous lkb1 knockdown accelerates cell cycle progression through g(1)/s checkpoint in hek-293t cells and huvecs , which is at least in part , mediated by decline of p53 and p16 pathways .
we further show that at high density , progression through the g phase of the cell cycle is faster and cyclin d1 protein is induced in different cell types where 4e-bp1 has been either downregulated ( stable shrna expression or transient sirna transfection ) or removed ( knock-out ) .
thus 4e-bp1 appears as an important mediator of contact inhibition .
we found that compared to control cells , overexpression of pten significantly suppressed growth and induced apoptosis in esophageal cancer cell lines eca-109 and te-1 via downregulation of bcl-2 expression and changes in cell-cycle progression .
aea treatment induced necrosis in hepg2 cells but not in l02 cells .
methyl-beta-cyclodextrin treatment prevented necrosis in hepg2 cells ( t = 3.702 ; 5.274 ; 3.503 , p less than 0.05 ) .
aea treatment increased the levels of p-p38mapk and p-jnk proteins in a dose-dependent manner in hepg2 cells ( f = 11.908 ; 26.054 , p less than 0.05 ) and the increase can be partially by prevented by mcd ( t = 2.801 ; t = 12.829 , p less than 0.05 ) .
conclusion aea treatment induces necrosis in hepg2 cells via cb1 and cb2 receptors and lipid rafts .
mice sensitive to tumor promotion by v2o5 were also found to be more susceptible to v2o5-induced pulmonary inflammation and hyperpermeability ( a/j&gt;balb&gt;b6 ) .
differential strain responses in inflammation were positively associated with elevated levels of the chemokines kc and mcp-1 , higher nfkappab and c-fos binding activity , as well as sustained erk1/2 activation in lung tissue .
further , we identified a positive relationship between tumor promotion and susceptibility to v2o5-induced pulmonary inflammation .
these findings suggest that repeated exposures to v2o5 containing particles may augment lung carcinogenesis in susceptible individuals through oxidative stress mediated pathways .
the results confirm earlier findings that ( a ) the ' spontaneous ' sces are formed due to the incorporated brdu in the dna , ( b ) ' spontaneous ' and induced sces originate from different mechanisms , and ( c ) sces and chromatid exchanges are formed by different pathways .
it can be suggested that the ber pathway plays an important role in the repair of lesions induced by dbpde , affecting both chromosomal aberrations and sces induction .
moreover , the hrr pathway seems to play a role in cellular resistance to dbpde mainly in terms of chromosomal aberration induction while the nhej pathway takes part affecting only the induction of sces .
women tended to have higher adduct levels than men .
living in central copenhagen and surface darkness of fried meat and fish were associated with quantitative higher adduct levels .
no significant associations were found between dietary factors or smoking and dna adduct levels .
further , the results showed no prominent associations between any of 12 genetic polymorphisms and adduct levels .
overall , our study showed only few associations between dietary , environmental , and genetic factors and levels of bulky dna adducts measured in peripheral leukocytes in a general danish population .
results the results show that the inhibitors lowered cellular survival and increased cellular necrosis .
conclusion we conclude that there may be a cross-talk between signaling pathways and glycolysis in regulating pancreatic cancer cell survival and signaling .
mitotic figures were not evident and necrosis was not observed .
infiltration was associated with local inflammation and systemic th2/th17-oriented chronic inflammation that seemed to impair further activation of tls , as tumor-specific t cells adoptively transferred into mice bearing aggressive melanomas were poorly activated and failed to infiltrate the melanoma .
this immunosuppression also led to the incapacity of these mice to reject inoculated ta-positive tumors , in contrast to slow-progressing melanoma-bearing mice , which were responsive .
to test the role of adaptive immunity in tumor progression , we induced melanomas in immunodeficient ragko compound mice .
immunodeficient mice also developed abnormal inflammation and infiltration of imcs in a manner similar to immunocompetent mice , indicating that this phenotype was not dependent on adaptive immunity .
therefore , tumor-intrinsic factors distinguishing the two melanoma types control the initiation of inflammation , which was independent of adaptive immunity .
the latter delayed development of aggressive melanomas but was overridden by inflammation .
genotoxicity was assessed in parallel by the measurement of dna strand breaks in fish erythrocytes by the alkaline comet assay .
a positive correlation was observed between the level of hydroxylated pah metabolites and genotoxicity as measured by the alkaline comet assay .
after exposure of u937 cells to the oxazaphosphorines , the patterns of temporary changes in the frequency of tunel positive u937 cells , expressing dna breakage , were determined .
the different potential of d-17272 , d-18864 and d-19575 to induce dna strand breakage in the human histiocytic lymphoma u937 cells was shown .
in high grade dysplasias , p16 expression was present in 45.0% ( 9/20 ) .
in gallbladder adenocarcinomas , p16 expression was found in 27.6% ( 16/58 ) .
expression of p16 correlated significantly with histologic grade ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
no correlation was found between p16 expression and age , gender , tumor size , gross type , location , vascular invasion , lymph node metastasis , and tnm stage , respectively .
conclusions p16 protein overexpression is an early and relatively common event in carcinogenesis of gallbladder carcinoma .
results 50 microm progesterone increased both the cytotoxic and apoptotic effects of 0.1 microg/ml epirubicin on hepg2 cells at 48 hr culture due to 50 microm progesterone accumulated cells in s phase of the cell cycle and subsequently reduced cyclin d1 expression .
here , we provide an overview about dsbs damage response , focusing on the role of the dsbs repair mechanisms , of chromatin modifications , and of the cancer susceptibility gene brca1 which plays a multifunctional role in controlling genome integrity .
results significant positive correlation was found between the expression of mcm-2 and that of ki-67 ( r = 0.74 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
mcm-2 and ki-67 expression was significantly associated with histologic grade ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) , and negative correlation was observed between mcm-2 or ki-67 expression and estrogen status ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
no significant association was observed between mcm-2 or ki-67 expression and patient age , tumor size , lymph node status , clinical stage and menopausal status .
conclusion our results suggest that mcm-2 expression is significantly associated with histologic grade of breast carcinoma and with cell proliferation capacity ( ki-67 labelling index ) .
low pi increased the expression of sodium-dependent phosphate co-transporter 2b , and activated akt signal with decreased pten expression in the lungs of k-ras(la1) mice .
low pi increased the akt/mtor-mediated protein translation through upregulating the phosphorylation of p70s6k and 4e-bp1 .
in addition , low pi stimulated cell cycling as evidenced by altered cell cycle regulators such as cyclin d1 and d3 .
we also provide evidence that the tumor stroma of human breast cancers shows a transcriptional shift towards oxidative stress , dna damage/repair , inflammation , hypoxia , and aerobic glycolysis , consistent with the " reverse warburg effect " .
thus , a loss of cav-1 expression in cancer-associated myofibroblasts may be a protein biomarker for oxidative stress , aerobic glycolysis , and inflammation , driving the " reverse warburg effect " in the tumor micro-environment and cancer cell metastasis .
results loss of heterozygosity of cdc4/fbxw7 occurred in 32% of eogcs , and correlated with loss of expression in 26% .
loss of expression was frequent in both eogc and conventional gastric cancers .
no cdc4/fbxw7 mutations were found and loss of cdc4/fbxw7 did not correlate with ploidy status .
there was a significant correlation between loss of cdc4/fbxw7 expression and upregulation of c-myc .
the chromatin-bound xrcc4 represented only approximately 1% of total xrcc4 molecules even after 20 gy irradiation and the quantitative analysis using purified protein as the reference suggested that only a few xrcc4-dna ligase iv complexes were recruited to each dna end .
these results would provide us with useful experimental tools and important insights to understand the dna repair process through nhej pathway .
one patient had lymph node metastasis and 3 patients died of the disease .
in 3 of the recurrent cases , the tumor cells displayed increased nuclear atypia and mitotic activity ( average about 5 to 6 per 10 high-power fields ) , accompanied by patchy necrosis , less inflammatory cell infiltration and focal sarcomatous changes .
the ki-67 proliferation index increased with tumor recurrences .
ouabain could induce hepg2 cell apoptosis and generate s phase arrest , and sirna could enhance the anti-cancer effect of ouabain that induced hepg2 cells apoptosis via an intracellular ca(2+) and ros increase-mediated , and generated cell cycle s phase arresting by decreasing the cyclina1/cyclin-dependent kinase 2 ( cdk2)/proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( pcna ) complex product and increasing the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1a ( p21(cip1) ) .
considerable inflammation was seen in both patient groups .
scc in immunocompetent patients and otrs was associated with a mixed th1 and th2 gene expression signature .
cd4(+) mrna was diminished in immunosuppression .
skin adjacent to scc in otrs showed th2 expression pattern as compared with immunocompetent patients .
although th17-weighted inflammation was unchanged , il-17a mrna level was markedly decreased with immunosuppression .
the hb-2 cells displayed uncontrolled cell division and lost contact inhibition leading to cell overlap .
future studies along these lines may lead to targeting of b1 cells to regulate m response in inflammation and cancer .
the comparison between pcb 52 and pcb 77 indicated that the cytotoxic mechanisms involved in coplanar or non-coplanar pcb congener exposure were different , and this difference might be associated with individual genotoxicity and the release of contact inhibition , respectively .
pathological analyses following treatment of pre-existing tumors revealed a linear correlation between tumor necrosis and the ratio of intra-tumoral cd8+ effector cells to foxp3+ regulatory cells ( t(regs) ) .
pam3csk4-treated cd8+cd25+ treg cells directly suppressed cd4+ t cell proliferation by cell-contact inhibition .
tunel revealed that cd8+cd25+ treg cells , but not cd4+cd25+ treg cells , directly induced cd4+cd45rohi+ apoptosis .
key findings ccl(4) induced hepatocyte necrosis , inflammatory cell infiltration and fatty degeneration , which were ameliorated by co-treatment with rbpti in a concentration-dependent manner .
importantly , rbpti reduced ccl(4)-induced liver oxidative stress response and pro-inflammatory cytokine production .
these findings provide novel guidelines and strategy for imaging and treatment of necrotic tumors .
there was a significant increase in hepatic lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation in carcinogen control animals compared with their normal counterparts at the end of the study ( 20 weeks ) .
we propose the selective cytotoxicity of high dose ascorbate to tumour cells to be due to the preferential generation of h(2)o(2) in the acidic and ferritin-rich tumour microenvironment , combined with reduced defense systems against h(2)o(2) as a consequence of aerobic glycolysis .
furthermore , edu staining of rassf8-depleted cells showed growth suppression in a manner dependent on contact inhibition .
results our data demonstrate that in comparison to the bulk population of mcf-7 cells ( predominantly cd24+/cd44+ ) , the mcf-7 mammosphere cells benefit from a multifaceted approach to cellular protection relative to that seen in monolayer cells , including a reduced level of reactive oxygen species , a more active dna single-strand break repair ( ssbr ) pathway , possibly due to a higher level of expression of the key ssbr protein , human ap endonuclease 1 ( ape1 ) , and a significantly reduced propensity to undergo senescence as a result of increased telomerase activity and a low level of p21 protein expression .
no significant difference was seen in the rates of double-strand break repair ( dsbr ) between the two cell types , but dsbr in mammospheres appears to by-pass the need for h2ax phosphorylation .
conclusions enhanced survival of mcf-7 tumor-initiating cells in response to ionizing radiation is primarily dependent on an inherent down-regulation of the senescence pathway .
since mcf-7 cells are representative of cancer cells that do not readily undergo apoptosis , consideration of senescence pathways may play a role in targeting stem cells from such tumors .
thus , autophagy preserves cellular fitness by limiting er and oxidative stress , a function potentially important in autophagy-mediated suppression of mammary tumorigenesis .
furthermore , autophagy regulates keratin homeostasis in the mammary gland via a p62-dependent mechanism .
high phospho(ser73)-k8 expression may be a marker of autophagy functional status in breast tumors and , as such , could have therapeutic implications for breast cancer patients .
flow cytometry and western blot studies indicated that xq2 induces g2/m arrest and a caspase-dependent apoptosis in a549 cells .
taken together , our data suggest that xq2 exerted anticancer action by suppressing the ros level and triggering cell-cycle arrest and the caspase-dependent pathway , which is associated with apoptosis .
the arrest of cell cycles in g1 phase was observed , but s-phase was significantly decreased .
the concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines ( il-1 , tnf-alpha , and il-6 ) were dose-dependently increased at day 1 after instillation in the bal fluid and in the blood .
during the experimental period of 28 days , pro-inflammatory cytokines ( il-1 , tnf-alpha , and il-6 ) , th0 cytokine ( il-2 ) , th1 type cytokine ( il-12 ) , th2 type cytokines ( il-4 and il-5 ) , tgf-beta , and ige were also elevated .
expressions of many genes related with inflammation or tissue damage such as heat shock protein , matrix metalloproteinase , tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases , and serum amyloid a were significantly induced .
formation of microgranuloma , which is one of the indicators for chronic inflammatory response , was observed in the alveolar space .
in addition , distribution of b cell and cd8+ t cell in blood lymphocytes was increased at day 28 .
based on the result , iron oxide nanoparticles may subchronic induce inflammatory responses via oxidative stress in mice by a single intratracheal instillation .
in inflamed areas of the liver , etheno adducts were localized in the nuclei of inflammatory cells and in the epithelial lining of the bile duct .
semi-quantitative image analysis showed higher adduct levels in the liver of o. viverrini-infected hamsters , treated with or w/o ndma when compared with untreated controls .
adducts increased in an age-dependent manner from o. viverrini-infection until cca development .
increased adduct formation paralleled histopathological changes in plasma alkaline phosphatase ( alp ) activity , bile duct hyperplasia , dysplasia , precancerous lesions , and cca appearance .
also elevated expression of alkyladenine dna glycosylase ( aag ) , which excises 1,n6-ethenoadenine ( epsilona ) was linked to higher adduct formation , suggesting imbalanced repair .
our results implicate accumulation of inflammation-related , promutagenic dna damage in target tissue and possibly imbalanced repair in the onset of cholangiocarcinogenesis .
this model provides a mechanism for contact inhibition that could explain previously unrelated experimental findings on the role played by e-cadherin , beta-catenin , and alpha-catenin in the cellular phenotype and in tumorigenesis .
interestingly , the majority of genes was upregulated indicating that contact-inhibition is not a passive state , but actively induced .
furthermore , we confirmed differential expression of eight genes by semi-quantitative rt-pcr and identified the potential tumour suppressor transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta)-1-induced clone 22 ( tsc-22 ; tgfb1i4 ) as a novel protein to be induced in contact-inhibited cells .
the early/transient response represented reductions in many genes that are involved in cell cycle and proliferation ( e.g .
bub1b , ccna2 , cdkn3 , mki67 , ube2c ) , whereas the continuous/late changed genes represented the more classical estrogen response genes ( e.g .
tff1 , tff3 , igfbp5 ) .
conclusions both early/transient/proliferation response genes and continuous/late/estrogen-response genes are able to predict prognosis of primary breast tumours in a dynamic manner .
results there was a significant decline in the antioxidant levels and a significant rise in oxidant levels in patients with carcinoma of the breast , compared to controls .
the inflammatory markers-il-6 and ferritin-were also significantly higher in patients with breast cancer .
a significantly positive correlation was observed between the il-6 levels and conjugated dienes with the stage of breast carcinoma ; whilst a significantly negative correlation was observed between the levels of conjugated dienes and superoxide dismutase and superoxide dismutase levels with the disease staging .
conclusions this study underlines the interplay between inflammatory pathways and oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of breast cancer .
inflammation and oxidative stress are two such etiologies investigated in our study .
about 40% of patients have a poor chemotherapy-induced tumor necrosis , leading to poor probability of survival .
epa effectively inhibited proliferation , altered cell-cycle progression , and induced apoptosis of tumor cells ( at-4 ) .
here , we show that glt induces formation of autophagic vacuoles and upregulates expression of beclin-1 ( 1.3-fold increase ) and lc-3 ( 7.3-fold increase ) proteins in colon cancer cells and in tumors in a xenograft model ( beclin-1 , 3.9-fold increase ; lc-3 , 1.9-fold increase ) .
autophagy is mediated through the inhibition of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase ( p38 mapk ) because p38 mapk inhibitor , sb202190 , induces autophagy and expression of beclin-1 ( 1.2-fold increase ) and lc-3 ( 7.4-fold increase ) , and glt suppresses phosphorylation of p38 mapk ( approximately 60% inhibition ) in colon cancer cells .
the mechanism of accelerated cellular senescence was not activated by either compound in pc3 or lymph node carcinoma of the prostate ( lncap ) cells .
amongst the most highly represented functional categories of genes altered by both compounds was the cell cycle category .
in total , 100 cell cycle genes were altered by dhc and fisetin including 27 genes with key functions in g2/m phase that were downregulated by both compounds .
as examples , we describe the application of these methods to the study of proteins involved in recombination-mediated dna repair , a process essential for the maintenance of genomic integrity .
this accelerated tumorigenesis is due to increased injury and inflammation , unrestricted oxidative stress , fibrosis , and compensatory increase in hepatocyte proliferation secondary to platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha ( pdgfralpha)/phosphoinositide 3-kinase ( pik3ca)/akt activation and c-myc overexpression .
conclusion loss of beta-catenin impairs the liver's ability to counteract den-induced oxidative stress and enhances tumorigenesis through pdgfralpha/pik3ca/akt signaling .
blockade of pdgfralpha or oxidative stress dramatically affects beta-catenin-deficient tumorigenesis .
histological examination revealed hypercellular tumor with significant cell atypism , mitotic activity , and focal necrosis .
results we did not found differences in the levels of ifn-gamma , tnf-alpha and il-2 in all fluids isolated from patients with malignant or benign tumors .
women with advanced cancer had significantly higher serum il-6 , il-10 and tgf-beta1 levels than women with early stages or benign tumors .
moreover , women with very advanced cancer in whom the optimal cytoreduction was disabled had the highest serum levels of il-10 , tgf-beta1 and il-8 .
the concentrations of il-6 and il-8 were higher in ascites of cancer patients than in ascites of women with benign tumors .
the areas under curves constructed for the selected cutoff serum cytokines levels ( auc-roc ) showed good predictive values for il-6 ( 0.87 ) , il-10 ( 0.836 ) and il-8 ( 0.797 ) .
conclusions our results indicate on intensified inflammatory process in women with ovarian cancer ( accompanied by their immunosuppression ) .
preoperative analysis of serum il-6 , il-10 and il-8 may improve the differential diagnosis of ovarian tumors .
significant differences ( p value &lt ; 0.0001 ) emerged in terms of : the median size of the tumors at surgery ( 8.5 cm in varna , sd + 4.04 vs. 4.4 cm in bari , sd _ 2.02 ) ; t-stage of the tumor ( varna t t2-30% , t3-22% , t4-15% vs. bari t1-64% , t2-12% , t3-24% , t4-0% ) ; n-positive disese ( 24% vs. 2% ) ; distant metastases ( 20% vs. 2% ) and presence of necrosis in the renal masses ( 37% vs. 19% ) .
thus , 85% of varna patients underwent open radical nephrectomy , 11% nephron-sparing surgery and 4% explorative laparotomy , due to inoperability of the renal mass .
the current study suggested that chronic occupational exposure to cr ( vi ) during welding could lead to increased levels of dna damage and repair inhibition .
necrosis was mentioned in 35% of reports .
when the significance level was set to p &lt ; 0.0005 and the search depth to five antibody combinations , controls and be can be differentiated by 63 , controls and eac by 3222 , and be from eac by 1521 distinct protein combinations.for example , the number of activated apoptotic nave and memory t cells was significantly increased only in be , whereas the number of activated apoptotic helper and regulatory t cells was significantly elevated in be and eac .
interestingly , the number of precursor t cells ( cd7+ ) was significantly elevated only in eac .
these cells lack bax and caspase-8 , suggesting impaired apoptosis in the early stages of t cell differentiation .
conclusion proteomic analysis showed for the first time that proteins , which are critically involved in the mucosal immune system of the esophagus , are distinctly expressed in be and eac , whereas others are comparably altered in both diseases , suggesting that many pathogenic events might be shared by both diseases .
apoptosis and necrosis were observed under fluorescent microscope and quantified by flow cytometry , which suggested an increasing trend of apoptotic and necrotic rates ( p &lt ; 0.05 , p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
whereas , nec-1 could not only decrease the necrotic rate but also apoptotic rate as well ( p &lt ; 0.05 , p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
our study seems in agreement with the hypothesis that bps can inhibit angiogenesis interfering with endothelial cell proliferation and survival , leading to loss of blood vessels and avascular necrosis .
this decrease in levels of high-grade neoplastic lesions was found to be associated with increased expression of proapoptotic proteins bad ( bcl(2) antagonist of cell death ) and cleaved caspase-3 and cell cycle regulatory proteins cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors p21 and p27 .
in contrast , the expression of cyclins a and e were found to be decreased in mixed-tocotrienol groups .
taken together , our results show that by modulating cell cycle regulatory proteins and increasing expression of proapoptotic proteins , mixed tocotrienols suppress prostate tumorigenesis in the tramp mice .
results detection of cell cycle showed a decrease of s stage and an increase of g1 stage after downregulation of ns. 219 differentially expressed genes were found and these genes were involved in cell cycle , cell proliferation , signal transduction , cell apoptosis and cell differentiation , and so on .
ink4 family genes ( p15 , p16 , p18 ) were upregulated while cyclin d1 hdac1 were downregulated .
these genes were tightly related to cdk4/6-cyclin d and prb-e2f1 complexes .
conclusion ns is an important g1/s checkpoint regulator and it could regulate cell cycles via a p53-independent pathway in prostate cancer .
analysis of mechanisms showed nuclear fragmentation and dna laddering in gel electrophoresis .
gsh and gr levels were found to be reduced after the compound treatment .
cell cycle analysis using fluorescent cytometry revealed g2/m phase arrest , which indicates the compound deserves consideration for further studies against cancer .
a spectrum of chromosome aberrations was observed in transformed cells , with 40% showing loss of 17p ( e.g. loss of one copy of p53 ) .
pretreatment of cells with pharmacological doses of cddo-me , which has been shown to induce antioxidative as well as anti-inflammatory responses , prevented the heavy-ion-induced increase in proliferation rate and anchorage-dependent and independent colony formation efficiencies .
nuclear msx2 correlated with low-grade tumours ( p = 0.015 ) , estrogen receptor positivity ( p = 0.038 ) , low ki67 ( p = 0.005 ) and high cyclin d1 expression ( p = 0.037 ) .
ectopic expression of msx2 in breast cell lines resulted in radically decreased cell viability mediated by induction of cell death via apoptosis .
further analysis of msx2-expressing cells revealed increased levels of p21 and phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( erk ) and decreased levels of survivin and the ' split ends ' ( spen ) protein family member rbm15 .
results showed that apoptotic body-like structures were identified by transmission electron microscopy in the antisense gene-transfected cells .
flow cytometry analysis revealed that a g1 phase arrest accounted for the reduction in proliferation in the antisense gene-transfected cells ; increased apoptosis was also detected ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
both immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis confirmed that bcl-2 expression was significantly down-regulated in the antisense gene-transfected cells compared to controls .
in a word , down-regulation of bc006151 can significantly inhibit proliferation and increase apoptosis of h446/(c)ddp cells after chemotherapy , and this gene may play an important role in the development of multidrug resistance in lung cancer .
curcumin also inhibited the growth of pc-9 cells and induced g(1)/s arrest of the cell-cycle followed by strong induction of apoptosis .
moreover , curcumin induced the expression of cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor genes p21 and p27 , while it inhibited the expression of numerous genes , including bcl-2 , cyclin d1 , cdk2 , cdk4 and cdk6 .
briefly , over time methyl sulfone induced contact inhibition , loss of ability to migrate through an extracellular matrix , loss of anchorage-independent growth , proper wound healing followed by contact inhibition , irreversible senescence followed by arborization with melanosomes in arbors as seen in normal melanocytes .
additionally , methyl sulfone has promise as a tool to explore molecular mechanisms of metastatic transformation as well as fundamental processes such as cell migration , contact inhibition , wound healing and cellular senescence .
results in her2-overexpressing/er-positive bt474 cells , combining all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) with tamoxifen or trastuzumab synergistically inhibited cell growth , and altered cell differentiation and cell cycle .
the retinoid drug combinations altered signaling by her2 and er .
conclusions combining retinoids with trastuzumab maximally inhibits cell growth and induces apoptosis in trastuzumab-sensitive cells .
results when l929 cells were treated with a combination of tnf-alpha and heating the cells died quickly and apoptosis increased to an overwhelming extent , especially in the group pre-treated with tnf-alpha for 1 h prior to heating .
using an annexin-v-fitc kit and flow cytometer , we found that both necrosis and apoptosis occurred .
conclusion the results suggested that hyperthermia may enhance the necrotic and apoptotic effects of tnf-alpha on some tumour cells and overcome the resistance of some tumour cells to tnf-alpha .
we further show that sustained loss of the shrna screening hits leads to multipolar spindles and heterogeneous chromosome content , two characteristics of chromosomal instability .
loss of several of the kinases leads to loss of contact inhibition and to anchorage-independent growth , vital traits acquired during tumor development .
our results showed that low concentration of taxol induced cell death dominantly in apoptotic fashion associated with nuclear fragmentation , protein synthesis , phosphatidylserine ( ps ) externalization , g2/m cell cycle arrest , bax translocation into mitochondria and caspase-3 activation , whereas high concentration of this drug induced significant cytoplasm vacuolization , mitochondria swelling and paraptosis-like cell death form without protein synthesis that is necessary for paraptosis .
in contrast , pre-treatment urinary neopterin excretion above 275 mol/mol creatinine , which indicates an unspecific activation of the innate immune system , was associated with a very poor overall survival with a median of only 11 months when compared with a median overall survival of 40 months in patients with lower urinary neopterin excretion ( p = 0.021 ) .
these findings demonstrate that in ovarian carcinomas the unspecific " cancer-related inflammation " contributes to a significant subversion of the adaptive antitumor immune defense mounted at the tumor site .
highly significant differences in the distribution of genotypes of the ape1 , xrcc1 and ccnd1 genes were found between colon cancer patients and healthy individuals .
the 148asp ape1 allele and the 399gln xrcc1 allele apparently increased the risk of colon cancer ( or = 1.9-2.3 and or = 1.5-2.1 , respectively ) .
additionally , frequencies of xpd genotypes differed between healthy controls and patients with colon or head and neck cancer .
the data clearly indicate that the risk of colon cancer is associated with single-nucleotide polymorphism in genes involved in base-excision repair and dna-damage-induced responses .
results incubation with pma for 15 min stimulated pkcalpha and pkce activation , which was correlated with the phosphorylation of erk1/2 but not akt .
the activation of both these pkc isozymes was closely associated with the stimulation of proliferation and the cell cycle progression induced by pma in gh3b6 cells , an effect that was blocked by the inhibitors of pkcalpha ( g6976 ) and pkce ( ev1-2 ) .
conclusion we demonstrated that the activation of pkcalpha and pkce by phorbol ester in tumor pituitary gh3b6 cells led to cell proliferation and cell cycle progression , effects that involved erk1/2 activation .
data show that pch4 promoted nur77 translocation from the nucleus to the cytoplasm and induced cell apoptosis in oscc cells .
when nur77 translocation was blocked , the degree of tumor apoptosis caused by pch4 was significantly inhibited ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
furthermore , treatment with a jnk inhibitor significantly reduced pch4-induced apoptosis ( p&lt;0.05 ) and decreased pch4-induced nur77 expression ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
we have demonstrated that oscc cells are sensitive to pch4 and that nur77 protein translocation from the nucleus to the cytoplasm might be associated with the induction of apoptosis by pch4 .
results exposure to pgg induced s-phase arrest in both cell lines as indicated by the lack of 5-bromo2'-deoxy-uridine ( brdu ) incorporation into s-phase cells as well as g(1) arrest .
higher levels of pgg induced more caspase-mediated apoptosis in mcf-7 , in strong association with induction of p53 ser(15) phosphorylation , than in mda-mb-231 cells .
the cell cycle arrests were achieved without an induction of cyclin dependent kinase ( cdk ) inhibitory proteins p21(cip1) and p27(kip1) .
pgg treatment led to decreased cyclin d1 in both cell lines and over-expressing cyclin d1 attenuated g(1) arrest and hastened s arrest .
in serum-starvation synchronized mcf-7 cells , down-regulation of cyclin d1 was associated with de-phosphorylation of retinoblastoma ( rb ) protein by pgg shortly before g(1)-s transition .
we demonstrated that the mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk ) cascade regulates mitotic progression and the spindle checkpoint .
as demonstrated by immunofluorescence at kinetochores , depletion of raf kinase inhibitory protein ( rkip ) , an inhibitor of raf/mek/erk signaling , causes an increase in mapk activity that inhibits aurora b kinase activity .
by monitoring mitotic index and transit time from nuclear envelope breakdown to anaphase , we demonstrated that rkip depletion leads to a defective spindle checkpoint and genomic instability , particularly in response to drugs that disrupt microtubule function .
the results show a significant decrease of the expression and activity of inos , extracellular o(2) ( - ) production , sod , cat and gpx activity when the cells were treated with verbascoside .
based on these results it is hypothesized that verbascoside has antiinflammatory properties since it reduces the production of superoxide radicals and consequently reduces the activity of inos .
results our results indicated that , among the compounds tested , quercetin was the most potent antioxidant in preventing dna damage .
quercetin significantly decreased the extent of dna strand breaks in a dose-dependent manner ; 100 microm of quercetin almost completely inhibited the dna strand breakage .
unlike quercetin , its glycosidated conjugate rutin , failed to provide any significant protection against idarubicin-induced dna strand breaks except at the highest concentration tested ( 2 mm ) .
quercetin was found to be also an effective protector against dna damage induced by mitomycin c. conclusion we conclude that quercetin , one of the most abundant flavonoids in the human diet , is highly effective in reducing the dna damage caused by the antitumor agents , idarubicin and mitomycin c , following bioactivation by p450 reductase .
results treatment of mice with cisplatin resulted in renal damage , showing an increase in blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels , tubular damage , oxidative stress and apoptosis .
treatment of cisplatin-treated mice with luteolin significantly improved renal dysfunction , reducing tubular cell damage , oxidative stress and apoptosis .
examination of molecules involving apoptosis of the kidney revealed that treatment of cisplatin increased the levels of p53 and its phosphorylation , puma- , bax and caspase-3 activity that were significantly decreased by treatment with luteolin .
there was no evidence of immunosuppression .
biopsy of a skin lesion showed lymphoproliferative infiltration of the dermis with a follicular and angiocentric growth pattern and regional epidermal necrosis .
on plastic and laminin with mcf-10a normal breast epithelial cells , egf and igfbp-3 each increased cell growth and together produced a synergistic response , whereas with t47d breast cancer cells igfbp-3 alone had no effect , but the ability of egf to increase cell proliferation was markedly inhibited in the presence of igfbp-3 .
in contrast on fibronectin with mcf-10a cells , igfbp-3 alone inhibited cell growth and blocked egf-induced proliferation .
with the cancer cells , igfbp-3 alone had no effect but enhanced the egf-induced increase in cell growth .
the insulin-like growth factor-independent effects of igfbp-3 alone on cell proliferation were completely abrogated in the presence of an egfr , tyrosine kinase inhibitor , iressa .
although igfbp-3 did not affect egfr phosphorylation [ tyr(1068) ] , it was found to modulate receptor internalization and was associated with activation of rho and subsequent changes in mapk phosphorylation .
the levels of fibronectin and igfbp-3 within breast tumors may determine their dependence on egfr and their response to therapies targeting this receptor .
results rb overexpression did not show any significant association with gleason score or prostate cancer survival. p21 protein expression showed a significant association with prostate cancer survival ( p=0.02 ) and overall survival ( p=0.01 ) in a univariate model but not in a multivariate model with pathological and serum psa data .
there was a significant association between p16 cytoplasmic expression and prostate cancer survival ( hr=2.52 , 95%ci= 1.79-3.55 , p&lt;0.001 ) and overall survival ( hr= 1.54 , 95% ci=1.20-1.98 , p=0.001 ) in a univariate model. p16 expression remained an independent prognostic factor for prostate cancer survival ( hr=1.50 , 95%ci=1.05-2.14 , p=0.03 ) .
among the growth factors tested , epidermal growth factor ( egf ) had prominent effects on inducing ck19 expression in plc-5 and hepg2 , which was accompanied by the reduced expression of -fetoprotein in plc-5 .
the induction of ck19 expression after egf stimulation was accompanied by the phosphorylation of c-jun-n-terminal kinase ( jnk)/stress-activated protein kinase , which was blocked by the addition of jnk inhibitors .
egf also increased proliferative abilities and invasive properties of the hcc cell lines .
the extent of positive immunohistochemical signals of egf , egf receptor ( egfr ) , and jnk expression was significantly intense in ck-19-positive hcc than those of ck19-negative hcc .
clinicopathological analysis showed that ck19-positive hcc had a high incidence of portal vein invasion , extrahepatic metastasis and an early relapse , which was associated with the worsened 2-year disease free survival .
these results indicate that the activation of the egf-egfr signaling pathway is associated with the development of ck19-positive hcc , and the egf-induced increase in growth abilities of hcc may account for the poor prognosis of the patients .
our results show that ski-606 and iressa inhibit cell proliferation and provoke g(0)-g(1) cell cycle arrest and reduction of s and g(2)-m phase using 2 and 5m concentrations of these inhibitors .
in contrast , ski-606 induces differentiation to an epithelial phenotype " mesenchymal-epithelial transition " ; thus ski-606 causes a dramatic decrease in cell motility and invasion abilities of hela and siha cancer cells , in comparison to untreated cells and iressa-treated cells in which these parameters are only slightly affected .
our findings indicate that ski-606 inhibits signaling pathways involved in regulating tumor cell migration and invasion genes via -catenin alteration , suggesting that src inhibitor , in comparison to egf-r , is a promising therapeutic agent for human cervical cancer .
here , we extend these findings to show that elevated glucose metabolism , characteristic of cancer cells , can suppress protein kinase c ( pkc)-dependent p53 activation to maintain cell survival after growth factor withdrawal .
in contrast , dna damage-induced p53 activation was pkc independent and was not metabolically sensitive .
consistent with oncogenic kinases acting to replace growth factors , treatment of bcr-abl-expressing cells with the kinase inhibitor imatinib led to reduced metabolism and p53- and puma-dependent cell death .
furthermore , inhibition of glycolysis enhanced imatinib sensitivity in bcr-abl-expressing cells with wild-type p53 but had little effect on p53-null cells .
these data show that distinct pathways regulate p53 after dna damage and metabolic stress and that inhibiting glucose metabolism may enhance the efficacy of and overcome resistance to targeted molecular cancer therapies .
we describe here a novel mechanism of tumor progression by matrix degradation involving epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in response to membrane-type 1 matrix metalloproteinase ( mt1-mmp , mmp-14 ) induction at the edge of tumors expressing the fgfr4-r388 risk variant .
studies with cultured prostate carcinoma cell lines showed that the fgfr4-r388 variant , which has previously been associated with poor cancer prognosis , increased mt1-mmp-dependent collagen invasion .
in this experimental model , knockdown of fgfr4-r388 or mt1-mmp by rna interference blocked tumor cell invasion and growth in collagen .
this was coupled with impaired phosphorylation of fgfr substrate 2 and src , upregulation of e-cadherin , and suppression of cadherin-11 and n-cadherin .
in contrast , knockdown of the alternative fgfr4-g388 allele enhanced mt1-mmp and invasive tumor cell growth in vivo and within three-dimensional collagen .
expression profiling from paraffin-embedded tumor tissues was performed on an ad hoc set of genes involved in drug metabolism and resistance , dna repair , cell cycle regulation and growth factors signalling .
expression analysis in long-term survivors revealed a significant upregulation of pten , tp63 , gadd45a and mapk1 genes .
egf was found to be down-regulated in long-term survivors .
here , we found that in highly metastatic breast cancer cells , jygmc(a) , jygmc(b) and 4t1 , tgf- ligands were produced in autocrine fashion .
pharmacological inhibition of endogenous tgf- signalling by a tgf- type i receptor kinase inhibitor in serum-free conditions increased the expression of bh3-only protein , bim ( also known as bcl2-like 11 ) in jygmc(a) and jygmc(b) cells , and caused apoptotic cell death .
we also found that induction of bim by tgf- was not observed in foxc1 knocked-down cancer cells .
these findings suggest that tgf- plays a crucial role in the regulation of survival of certain types of cancer cells through the tgf--foxc1-bim pathway , and that specific inhibitors of tgf- signalling might be useful as apoptosis inducers in breast cancer cells .
cells exposed to hr displayed considerable enhancement of tube formation ( angiogenesis ) on matrigel .
presence of aspirin ( acetylsalicylic acid , 1 mm ) resulted in preservation of adherens junctions on the cellular membrane and prevented angiogenesis as well as mitosis .
for , indeed , the tumor lacks the defining features of high mitotic activity , cellular atypia or necrosis , and the microscopic picture is dominated by abundant myxoid stroma containing sparse spindle cells .
here we show that the egf-induced er genomic targets , its cistromes , are distinct from those induced by estrogen in a process dependent on the transcription factor ap-1 .
the egf-induced er cistrome specifically regulates genes found overexpressed in erbb2-positive human breast cancers .
this provides a potential molecular explanation for the endocrine therapy resistance seen in er-positive breast cancers that overexpress erbb2 .
these results suggest a central role for er in hormone-refractory breast tumors dependent on growth factor pathway activation and favors the development of therapeutic strategies completely antagonizing er , as opposed to blocking its estrogen responsiveness alone .
flow cytometry and fluorescence microscopy analysis showed that isorhamnetin exerted a stimulatory effect on apoptosis and necrosis .
isorhamnetin also increased the number of cells in g2/m phase .
serum deprivation appeared to potentiate the effects of isorhamnetin on cell death and facilitated cell cycle progression to g0/g1 phase .
these results suggest that isorhamnetin might mediate inhibition of hct-116 cell growth through the perturbation of cell cycle progression and are consistent with the notion that g2/m checkpoints could be a conserved target for flavonoids in human colon cancer cells , leading to apoptotic and necrotic death .
these antiproliferative , apoptotic , necrotic , and cell cycle effects suggest that isorhamnetin may have clinically significant therapeutic and chemopreventive capabilities .
mitoses were rarely observed and necrosis was absent .
here we show that the end products of lipid oxidation , -(2-carboxyethyl)pyrrole ( cep ) and other related pyrroles , are generated during inflammation and wound healing and accumulate at high levels in ageing tissues in mice and in highly vascularized tumours in both murine and human melanoma .
the molecular patterns of carboxyalkylpyrroles are recognized by toll-like receptor 2 ( tlr2 ) , but not tlr4 or scavenger receptors on endothelial cells , leading to an angiogenic response that is independent of vascular endothelial growth factor .
neutralization of endogenous carboxyalkylpyrroles impaired wound healing and tissue revascularization and diminished tumour angiogenesis .
taken together , these findings establish a new function of tlr2 as a sensor of oxidation-associated molecular patterns , providing a key link connecting inflammation , oxidative stress , innate immunity and angiogenesis .
bar-t cells infected with either p53 rnai or oncogenic h-ras(g12v) alone maintained cell-to-cell contact inhibition and did not exhibit anchorage-independent growth in soft agar .
in contrast , the combination of p53 rnai knockdown with expression of oncogenic h-ras(g12v) transformed the p16-deficient bar-t cells , as evidenced by their loss of contact inhibition , by their formation of colonies in soft agar , and by their generation of tumors in immunodeficient mice .
here , we found for the first time that jak2/stat3 was activated in hela cells when they were starved or treated with rapamycin .
stat3 activation was associated with autophagic processes , because it was completely inhibited by 3-methyladenine , partially inhibited by knockdown of molecules associated with autophagic processes and blocked by antioxidants , dpi , a nox inhibitor and knockdown of p22 phox , indicating that ros generated by nox that was activated during autophagic processes activated jak2/stat3 pathway .
these data together indicate that the autophagic process in cancer cells can contribute to their survival by jak2/stat3 activation and subsequent secretion of growth factors .
treatment of b16f-10 cells with nontoxic concentrations of dads resulted in the presence of apoptotic bodies and induced dna fragmentation in a dose-dependent manner .
dads treatment also down-reguated bcl-2 expression and up-regulated p53 , caspase-9 , and caspase-3 expression in b16f-10 melanoma cells .
the study also reveals that dads inhibited the activation and nuclear translocation of p65 , p50 , and c-rel subunits of nuclear factor ( nf)-b and other transcription factors , such as c-fos , activated transcription factor-2 , and cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein , in b16f-10 melanoma cells the pro-inflammatory cytokine production and gene expression of tumor necrosis factor ( tnf)- , interleukin ( il)-1 , il-6 , and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) were down-regulated in dads-treated cells compared with control b16f-10 metastatic melanoma cells .
dads induces caspase-dependent apoptosis through a mitochondria-mediated intrinsic pathway in b16f-10 melanoma cells by activating p53 and caspase-3 gene expression and suppressing pro-inflammatory cytokines and nf-b-mediated bcl-2 activation .
we show that during repair of uv lesions in noncycling cells , exo1-mediated processing of nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) intermediates competes with repair dna synthesis .
impediments of the refilling reaction allow exo1 to generate extended ssdna gaps , detectable by electron microscopy , which drive mec1 kinase activation and will be refilled by long-patch repair synthesis , as shown by dna combing .
we provide evidence that this mechanism maybe stimulated by closely opposing uv lesions , represents a strategy to redirect problematic repair intermediates to alternative repair pathways , and may also be extended to physically different dna damages .
our work has significant implications for understanding the coordination between repair of dna lesions and checkpoint pathways to preserve genome stability .
we demonstrate that the model purine base analog hap induces dna breaks in human cells and leads to elevation of levels of itpa .
the level of both spontaneous and hap-induced dna breaks is elevated in the cell line with the itpa p32t variant .
adenovirus-mediated overexpression of mda-7 facilitated the mda-7/il-24-induced apoptosis and g2/m arrest in hcc cells , but not in the normal liver cell line l02 , and the effect was independent of the p53 status .
inhibition of metastasis and angiogenesis was correlated with decreasing expression of stat3 , p-stat3 , mmp-2 , vegf , and tgf-beta genes , regulated by stat3 in mhcclm6 cells .
we also showed that ad.mda-7 combined with doxorubicin ( adm ) had significantly enhanced antitumor and antimetastatic effects in vivo , accompanied by the downregulation of vegf , mmp-2 , and tgf-beta genes and the upregulation of e-cadherin genes .
these data suggested that mda-7/il-24 induces its selective antitumor properties in hcc cells by promoting apoptosis independent of p53 status , inhibiting subcutaneous tumor growth and metastasis , and increasing the effect of chemotherapeutic agents .
tumor cells were treated with ga for 72 h , 70.53  4.54% hep-2 and 63.5  7.2% tca8113 cells were retarded at go/g1 phase , and the percentage of apoptosis was 40.4  1.58 and 38.4  1.7% , respectively .
ga-treated activated caspase-3 downregulated the expression of anti-apoptotic bcl-2 protein and upregulated the expression of pro-apoptotic bax protein , eventually leading to a decrease in the bcl-2/bax ratio in tumor cells .
the multi-kinase inhibitor dasatinib induced a variable but significant decrease of viability in both p53(wild-type) ( eheb , jvm-2 , jvm-3 ) and p53(mutated) ( mec-1 , mec-2 , bjab ) prolymphocytic b leukemic cells , due to a combination of cell cycle block in g1 and apoptosis .
antibody phospho-kinase array analysis revealed that dasatinib inhibited the phosphorylation of various kinases , including erk1/2 and p38/mapk as well as of stat3 transcription factors , in both p53(wild-type) and p53(mutated) cells .
results showed that ceramide increased p27(kip1) protein levels through activation of protein phosphatase 2a ( pp2a ) in pc-3 prostate cancer cells .
treatment of cells with the pp2a inhibitor okadaic acid or with pp2a-c sirna inhibited ceramide-induced enhanced p27(kip1) protein expression and akt dephosphorylation , and prevented skp2 downregulation .
overexpression of constitutively active akt attenuated ceramide-induced skp2 downregulation and p27(kip1) upregulation .
in addition , ceramide stimulated binding of the pp2a catalytic subunit pp2a-c to akt as assessed by immunoprecipitation experiments , indicating that pp2a is involved in the induction of p27(kip1) via inhibition of akt pathway .
finally , whether pp2a can regulate p27(kip1) expression independently of akt pathway was determined .
knockdown of pp2a-c with sirna reduced p27(kip1) levels in the presence of akt inhibitor .
these data reveal that pp2a is a regulator of ceramide-induced p27(kip1) expression via akt-dependent and akt-independent pathways .
besides , we show here that down-regulation of smyd3 could induce g1-phase cell cycle arrest , indicating the potent induction of apoptosis by smyd3 knockdown .
these results suggest the regulatory mechanisms of smyd3 on the acceleration of cell cycle and facilitate the development of strategies that may inhibit the progression of cell cycle in breast cancer cells .
herein , we show that epithelial cells from gprc5a knockout mouse lung ( gprc5a(-/-) cells ) survive better in vitro in medium deprived of exogenous growth factors and form more colonies in semisolid medium than their counterparts from wild-type mice ( gprc5a(+/+) cells ) .
some label-retaining cells were also er- or pr positive .
viewpoints these early results are a strong indication for continued research on the targeting of igf-r , particularly in the treatment of nsclc .
conclusions today , igf-1r targeting appears a promising approach , more than two dozen compounds have been developed and clinical trials are underway .
results uk down-regulated mmp-2 and mmp-9 , suggesting that uk may decrease pancreatic cancer cell invasion , as confirmed by the matrigel invasion assay .
at the same time , sparc mrna and cellular protein level up-regulation suggests that uk can affect cell proliferation by cell cycle inhibition , showing a cell cycle g2/m arrest in uk-treated cells .
alkylation of pten by ,-enals/enones and interference with its restraint of cellular pkb/akt signaling may accentuate hyperplastic and neoplastic disorders associated with chronic inflammation , oxidative stress , or aging .
in this study , we report that p38 activation in cervical cancer cells is driven by osteopontin ( opn ) , an extracellular matrix-associated cytokine that drives invasive progression .
opn regulates cd44-mediated p38 phosphorylation that induces nf-b activation and nf-b-dependent expression of furin , an extracellular protease implicated in human papilloma virus ( hpv ) processing that enhances cervical cancer cell motility .
s phase delay with a subsequent g2/m arrest was observed in capans in response to bg + tmz .
the g1-to-s transition delay in capan-2 was associated with p53-dependent apoptosis and was distinctly different from the presumed mismatch repair ( mmr ) killing operative during the g2/m arrest .
conclusion p53 provokes a classic proapoptotic response by delaying g1-to-s progression , but it may also facilitate cell killing by enhancing mmr-related cell cycle arrest and cell death .
results we found that zinc increased a20 and a20-tumor necrosis factor-receptor associated factor-1 complex , decreased the ikk-/nf-b signaling pathway , oxidative stress markers , and inflammatory cytokines in these cells compared with zinc-deficient cells .
conclusion our studies suggest that zinc suppresses generation of nf-b-regulated inflammatory cytokines by induction of a20 .
here we show that treatment of rhabdoid tumor derived g401 cells with a nucleolin antagonist , the hb-19 pseudopeptide , could restore contact inhibition , impair anchorage-independent growth , and suppress tumor development in nude mice .
at concentrations of hb-19 that does not affect cell viability and multiplication index , there is restoration of contact inhibition thus suggesting that hb-19 treatment causes reversion of the malignant phenotype .
a right-sided radical nephrectomy was carried out and subsequent histopathology revealed a sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma with wide areas of necrosis coexisting with chromophobe renal cell carcinoma with calcification .
increased number of cases with repair gene methylation were seen with increasing severity of the esophageal pathology suggesting epigenetic progression parallels histologic changes .
thus these markers were useful in identifying the mismatch repair phenotype .
in contrast , we show here that primary human fibroblasts continue to exhibit high metabolic rates when induced into quiescence via contact inhibition .
by monitoring isotope labeling through metabolic pathways and quantitatively identifying fluxes from the data , we show that contact-inhibited fibroblasts utilize glucose in all branches of central carbon metabolism at rates similar to those of proliferating cells , with greater overflow flux from the pentose phosphate pathway back to glycolysis .
the high metabolic activity of the fibroblasts was directed in part toward breakdown and resynthesis of protein and lipid , and in part toward excretion of extracellular matrix proteins .
thus , reduced metabolic activity is not a hallmark of the quiescent state .
we show that fgf2 supports endothelial proliferation and de novo tubule formation in the presence of sunitinib and that fgf2 can suppress sunitinib-induced retraction of tubules .
importantly , these effects of fgf2 were ablated by pd173074 , a small molecule inhibitor of fgf receptor signalling .
we also show that fgf2 can stimulate pro-angiogenic signalling pathways in endothelial cells despite the presence of sunitinib .
finally , analysis of clinical renal-cancer samples demonstrates that a large proportion of renal cancers strongly express fgf2 .
flow cytometry analysis showed that coffee treatment induced apoptosis of a2780 and a2780cp70 cells .
further studies also showed that cpde induces growth arrest at the g1 phase and specifically down-regulates the expressions of cyclin e and cdk2 and up-regulates p27(cki) levels .
these events apparently lead to the induction of apoptosis , which was demonstrated qualitatively by a dna fragmentation assay and propidium iodide staining .
results tumors expressed higher levels of er compared to matched normal lung , whereas the reverse was true of pr .
high cytoplasmic er expression was identified as an independent negative prognostic predictor of overall survival ( os ; hr = 1.67 ) , and low total pr was identified as an independent negative predictor of time to progression ( ttp ; hr = 1.59 ) .
further effects on os were observed when egfr expression was included ( hr = 5.32 ) .
patients with low cytoplasmic er , low aromatase , low egfr , and high total pr had shorter os than patients with the opposite pattern ( hr = 6.60 ) .
contribution of these markers to survival showed no significant sex differences in a multivariable model .
er was elevated in tumors but was not predictive of survival , and appears to represent a variant er protein that is only recognized by a c-terminal antibody .
conclusions hormonal and egfr pathways together may contribute to lung cancer prognosis .
lung tumors with high er-1/low pr may define patients with aggressive biology .
mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( mef ) derived from dko mice displayed no evidence of cellular senescence when cultured serially in vitro .
moreover , dko mefs readily escaped ras-induced senescence and overrode contact inhibition in culture .
this was not the case in mefs lacking either p16ink4a or p21waf1/cip1 , indicating that p16(ink4a) and p21waf1/cip1 play cooperative roles in cellular senescence and contact inhibition in vitro .
notably , we found the dko mice to be extremely susceptible to 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene/12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-induced skin carcinogenesis that involves oncogenic mutation of the h-ras gene .
mechanistic investigations suggested that the high incidence of cancer in dko mice likely reflected a cooperative effect of increased benign skin tumor formation caused by p21waf1/cip1 loss , with increased malignant conversion of benign skin tumors caused by p16(ink4a) loss .
our findings establish an intrinsic cooperation between p16ink4a and p21waf1/cip1 in the onset of cellular senescence and tumor suppression in vivo .
the results indicated that ir ( 10 gy ) induced a g(2)/m cell cycle arrest of k562 cells within 24 h post-irradiation ( p.i. ) and decreased the clonogenic survival to 0.5 % of that of the control cells .
in k562 cells , g(2)/m cell cycle arrest was preceded by activation of trpv5/6-like nonselective cation channels in the plasma membrane 1-5 h p.i. , resulting in an elevated ca(2+) entry as evident from fura-2 ca(2+) imaging .
periplocin inhibited the growth of lung cancer cells and induced their apoptosis in time- and dose-dependent manners by cell cycle arrest in g0/g1 phase .
immunohistochemical analysis revealed that intratumoral angiogenesis was significantly suppressed .
furthermore , anti-cancer activity mediated by periplocin was associated with decreased level of phosphorylated akt and erk both in vitro and in vivo , which were important for cell growth and survival .
moreover , periplocin induced apoptosis by downregulating bcl-2 and upregulating bax , leading to activation of caspase-3 and caspase-9 .
these results suggest that definition of specific dna repair and checkpoint defects in subgroups of triple negative cancer might identify new treatment targets .
expression of wwox and its interactor , erbb4 , was highly significantly reduced in metastatic tissues vs. matched primary tissues , suggesting that wwox signal pathway loss contributes to lymph node metastasis , perhaps by allowing survival of tumor cells that have detached from basement membranes , as proposed for the role of wwox in ovarian cancer spread .
the prostatectomy specimen revealed a high-grade sarcoma with fascicles of highly cellular spindle cells and numerous mitoses with hemorrhage and necrosis .
we find that tgf , produced by pc12 cells , enhances scattering in response to hgf stimulation , increasing both cell-cell junction disassembly and cell migration .
further , gradients of tgf induce migratory mesenchymal cells to undergo chemotaxis towards the source of tgf .
these results have broad implications for how combinatorial growth factor signaling contributes to cancer metastasis , suggesting that vegf and tgf might modulate hgf signaling to influence route selection during cancer progression .
here , we analyse the dynamics of prostate cancer cell lines co-cultured with fibroblasts , and demonstrate that a combinatorial code of eph receptor activation dictates whether cell migration will be contact inhibited .
the unimpeded migration of metastatic pc-3 cells towards fibroblasts is dependent on activation of ephb3 and ephb4 by ephrin-b2 , which we show activates cdc42 and cell migration .
knockdown of ephb3 and ephb4 restores contact inhibition of locomotion to pc-3 cells .
conversely , homotypic collisions between two cancer cells results in contact inhibition of locomotion , mediated by epha-rho-rho kinase ( rock ) signalling .
thus , the migration of cancer cells can switch from restrained to invasive , depending on the eph-receptor profile of the cancer cell and the reciprocal ephrin ligands expressed by neighbouring cells .
when epidermal growth factor was excluded from the culture medium , a163 entered a quiescent period followed by a period of increased cell proliferation in a subpopulation of the cells .
karyotype and fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis showed an amplification of epidermal growth factor receptor on 7q in a163-s1 only , resulting in high expression of total and phosphorylated epidermal growth factor receptor .
the a163-s1 sub-line piles up in culture , indicating a loss of contact inhibition .
in addition to enhanced proliferation when in co-culture with hmscs , mcf-7 cells were found to have increased migration potential in vitro .
inhibition of er signalling by the pure anti-oestrogen ici 182,780 decreased the effect of hmscs on mcf-7 cell proliferation and migration supporting a role for er signalling in the hmsc/mcf-7 cell interaction .
additionally , hmscs have been shown to secrete a wide variety of growth factors and chemokines including stromal cell-derived factor-1 ( sdf-1 ) .
however , the combined treatment of ici and amd3100 reduced mcf-7 cell proliferation and migration below control levels , indicating targeting both the er and cxcr4 pathways is effective in decreasing the hmscs induction of mcf-7 cell proliferation and migration .
better understanding of the mechanisms involved in this tumour stroma cell interaction may provide novel targets for the development of treatment strategies for oestrogen receptor positive , hormone-independent , and endocrine-resistant breast carcinoma .
an anti-ccr2 monoclonal antibody blocked osteoclast chemoattractant activity for mmc , and ccr2 chemokines are also mmc growth factors , promoting mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in mmc .
an anti-insulin growth factor-1 receptor monoclonal antibody completely blocked the osteoclast-induced survival of mmc suppressing both osteoclast and mmc survival .
this study displays additional mechanisms involved in osteoclast/mmc interaction and suggests using ccr2 and/or insulin growth factor-1 targeting strategies to block this interaction and prevent drug resistance .
here we report that , in analogy to embryonic mammary epithelial biology , estrogen signaling expands the pool of functional breast cscs through a paracrine fgf/fgfr/tbx3 signaling pathway .
estrogen or fgf9 pretreatment induced csc properties of breast cancer cell lines and freshly isolated breast cancer cells , whereas cotreatment of cells with tamoxifen or a small molecule inhibitor of fgfr signaling was sufficient to prevent the estrogen-induced expansion of cscs .
pca cells deficient in dkk-1 expression did not increase canonical wnt signaling in target osteoblast cell lines ; however , dkk-1 knockdown pca cells exhibited increased expression of the cdk inhibitor p21(cip1/waf1) and a 32% increase in g(1) arrest compared with control cells .
collectively , our findings demonstrate that dkk-1 overexpression supports tumor growth in part by restricting expression of p21(cip1/waf1) through a mechanism independent of canonical wnt signaling .
our study reveals that pi3k/akt and mapk inhibitors suppressed aromatase activity in mcf-7aro cells .
however , pi3k/akt pathway inhibitors stimulated aromatase activity in t47daro cells .
this is due to enhanced mapk phosphorylation as compensation after the pi3k/akt pathway has been blocked .
these results suggest that aromatase activity could be enhanced by growth factor signaling pathways via post-transcriptional mechanisms .
gpc3 is also able to bind basic growth factors such as fibroblast growth factor 2 through its heparan sulphate glycan chains .
in the present study we used human mammary epithelial mcf10a cells , characterized by a radiosensitive phenotype due to reduced levels of the ku70 and ku80 repair proteins , and investigated whether this repair-deficient cell line displays differences in the phosphorylation pattern of h2ax protein compared to repair-proficient mcf10a cells .
our results show statistically significant differences in the number of h2ax foci between the repair-deficient and -proficient cell line , with a higher amount of h2ax foci present at early times post-irradiation in the ku-deficient cell line .
apoptosis rates in normal rat liver tissue after ir were evaluated by tunel staining and caspase-3 western blot .
caffeine abrogated ir-induced g2 phase arrest ( caff + ir vs. ir : 40.9  4.0 vs. 60.7  5.5% , at 12 h after ir ) and increased apoptosis rates ( caff + ir vs. ir : 56.1  6.8 vs. 35.5  4.0% , at 72 h after ir ) in mca-rh7777 cells , but did not affect ir-induced g2 phase arrest and apoptosis rates at any time point after ir in brl3a cells .
caffeine did not enhance apoptosis , transaminase activity , or histopathological injury of normal rat liver tissue at any time points after ir .
we found that er inhibits cdk1 activity , which is the critical determinant of the g2/m progression .
cyclin b1 is the major activator of cdk1 .
er inhibited the cell cycle-dependent stimulation of cyclin b1 mrna and protein .
our findings demonstrated that unliganded er causes a g2 cell cycle arrest by inactivating cdk1 through the repression of cyclin b1 and stimulation of gadd45a and btg2 expression .
apoptotic cells were significantly increased in number by the addition of g-csf to 32dcl3 and u937 cells , while g-csf had no significant effect on hl-60 and ba/f3 cell lines .
the addition of g-csf significantly decreased the percentage of g0/g1-phase cells and significantly increased that of s-phase cells among 32dcl3 and u937 cells .
g-csf potentiates ara-c- and vp-16-induced cytotoxicities through apoptosis induction by mobilizing resting g0-g1-phase cells into s phase .
furthermore , both mainstream ( mse ) and sidestream ( sse ) smoking extracts induced changes in expression of autophagic marker , lc3b , while sirna against np63 , irf6 and nos2 modulated these autophagic changes .
overall , these data support the notion that np63/irf6 interplay regulates nos2 transcription , thereby underlying the autophagic-related cancer cell response to tobacco exposure .
collectively , our in vitro assays and computational image analyses indicate that combining mabs against different epitopes of her2 better inhibits invasive growth .
importantly , while growth factors are able to reduce intraluminal apoptosis and induce an invasive phenotype , combinations of mabs better than single mabs can reverse the growth factor-induced phenotypes of her2-overexpressing spheroids .
in conclusion , our studies propose that mab combinations negate the biological effects of growth factors on invasive growth of her2-overexpressing cells .
the results indicated that chronic occupational exposure to cement during construction work could lead to increased levels of dna damage and repair inhibition .
results the boyden chamber assay showed that bmp-6 inhibited the migration and invasion of mcf-7 cells , which effect was significantly deprived by knockdown of ho-1 .
in addition , bmp-6-induced up-regulation of ho-1 exhibited an inhibitory effect on mmp-9 secretion in a paracrine action in mcf-7 cells .
overexpression of bmp-6 and ho-1 synergistically suppressed mmp-9 transcription , which effect was specifically mediated via the mapk/p38/ap-1 signaling .
conclusions these observations suggest a novel role of bmp-6/ho-1 cascade to relieve breast cancer metastasis by regulating the secretion of growth factors in tumor microenvironment .
rpa2 is an essential protein required for dna replication and repair .
gene arrays showed dramatic down-regulation of proinflammatory cytokine and chemokine pathways , prostaglandin metabolism , and the transcription factors stat3 ( signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ) and nuclear transcription factor b .
weight loss reduced expression of fos and jun genes and down-regulated oxidative stress pathways and the transcription factors atf ( activating transcription factor ) and creb ( cyclic amp response element-binding ) .
conclusions our data show that diet-induced weight loss in obese individuals reduces colorectal inflammation and greatly modulates inflammatory and cancer-related gene pathways .
these data imply that obesity is accompanied by inflammation in the colorectal mucosa and that diet-induced weight loss reduces this inflammatory state and may thereby lower crc risk .
expression of this mutant in mefs resulted in morphologic transformation , fast growth , and loss of contact inhibition , suggesting that swap-70 with this mutation can transform the cells .
use of mek inhibitors revealed that the erk1/2 pathway does not affect the cell growth of mefs but is responsible for loss of contact inhibition .
notably , the expression of tgf-1 , vegf and b-fgf all increased in rmg-i-h cells .
in conclusion , ley plays an important role in promoting cell proliferation , tumorigenecity and adhesion , and these effects may be related to increased levels of growth factors .
we show that genes encoding components of the ddr pathway are frequently altered in human gliomas and that loss of elements of the atm/chk2/p53 cascade accelerates tumor formation in a glioma mouse model .
we demonstrate that chk2 is required for glioma response to ionizing radiation in vivo and is necessary for dna-damage checkpoints in the neuronal stem cell compartment .
tgf1 increased the expression of mcp-1 and il-10 in a375 cells , an effect mediated by the cross-talk between smad , pi3k ( phosphoinositide 3-kinase)/akt , and braf-mapk ( mitogen activated protein kinase ) signaling pathways .
supernatants from tgf1-treated a375 cells enhanced mcp-1-dependent migration of monocytes , which , in turn , expressed high levels of tgf,1 , bfgf , and vegf mrna .
in vivo , treatment of a375 tumor-bearing athymic mice with p144 significantly reduced tumor growth , associated with a lower macrophage infiltrate and decreased intratumor mcp-1 and vegf levels , as well as angiogenesis .
these results show new effects of tgf1 on melanoma cells , which promote tumor progression and immunosuppression , strongly reinforcing the relevance of this cytokine as a molecular target in melanoma .
the ultrastructural analysis was under the electron microscope. 6gy irradiation induced a massive accumulation of autophagosomes accompanied by strong upregulation of beclin-1 and lc3-ii expression in te-1 cells .
compared with radiation alone , 3-ma combined with radiation significantly decreased cell viability , as well as autophagic ratio , beclin-1 , and lc3-ii protein level .
inhibition of autophagy increased radiation-induced apoptosis and the percentage of g2/m-phase cells .
blockade of autophagy with 3-ma enhanced cytotoxicity of radiotherapy in human esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
it suggests that inhibition of autophagy could be used as adjuvant therapy to treat esophageal squamous cell carcinoma .
when grown as a monolayer sheet , it displayed a pavement-like appearance and contact inhibition .
in contrast , yap expression and nuclear localization were reduced in confluent bmi-1 knockdown cells suggesting that silencing of bmi-1 restored contact inhibition by restoring normal activation of the hippo-yap growth-suppressor pathway .
together , these studies reveal a previously unrecognized link between bmi-1 , contact inhibition and the hippo-yap pathway and suggest that resistance to contact inhibition in bmi-1 overexpressing cancer cells may be in part a result of hippo inhibition and aberrant stabilization of yap .
the hef protein is particularly important for maintaining genome homeostasis , by functioning in the repair of a wide variety of dna damage in t. kodakaraensis cells .
the high sensitivity of the hef mutants to mmc suggests that hef performs a critical function in the repair process of dna interstrand cross-links .
these damage-sensitivity profiles suggest that the archaeal dna repair system has processes depending on repair-related proteins different from those of eukaryotic and bacterial dna repair systems using homologous repair proteins analyzed here .
attenuated cells expressed lower levels of chk1 ( also known as chek1 ) and p53 .
our results also highlight the importance of evaluating the cellular dna damage checkpoint and repair pathways in cancer therapies in general .
treatment with pth also downregulated markers typically expressed by osteoclasts and myeloma cells , and altered expression of genes that control oxidative stress and inflammation .
according to our results , three months of pyc administration had no effect on the level of oxidative damage to dna or on repair ability , but we found a relationship between the level of 8-oxog and repair ability of dna in this group .
we demonstrate that this extracellular matrix protein induced the expression of vascular endothelial cadherin ( ve-cadherin ) , a key regulator of intercellular junctions and contact inhibition of growth of endothelial cells that is also known to modulate vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( vegfr-2 ) activity , the major high-affinity receptor for vegf .
dmp1 induced ve-cadherin and p27(kip1) expression followed by cell-cycle arrest in human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( huvecs ) in a cd44-dependent manner .
in vivo , dmp1 significantly reduced laser-induced choroidal neovascularization lesions and tumor-associated angiogenesis .
these data enable us to put dmp1 on the angiogenic chessboard for the first time and to identify this protein as a new specific inhibitor of vegf-induced angiogenesis .
upon combined ifn- and vinblastine treatment , p21 expression , parp cleavage and activated bak levels were increased in m14 cells .
this biphasic response , characteristic of cellular senescence , was more pronounced upon combined treatment .
exposure of the ea.hy926 cells to pifn- was associated with an enlarged , multinucleated , -galactosidase-positive senescent phenotype .
the overall therapeutic mechanism of ifn- combined with chemotherapy may be due to both direct tumor cell death via irf-1 signaling and by premature senescence of endothelial cells and subsequent effects on angiogenesis in the tumor microenvironment .
in addition , p-60 was found to have the ability to regulate cell cycle and induce apoptosis in spc-a-1 cells .
results the study showed the highest concentration of tbars in benign , and the lowest in malignant liver tumors .
other types of gastrointestinal tumors studied , were characterized by similar levels of lipid peroxidation .
tbars concentration in these tumors was approximately 2-fold higher than in malignant liver tumors and much lower than in benign tumors .
in all cancers of the digestive tract with the exception of malignant liver tumors increased level of tbars was found , comparing with control tissue .
the concentration of tbars in cirrhotic liver was lower than in control .
the level of lipid peroxidation in liver cirrhosis and malignant liver tumors was similar .
there were no significant differences in tbars concentration in the tumors of particular sections of the intestine and normal colon .
the highest concentration of tbars was found in g1 grade of colorectal cancer .
the highest level of lipid peroxidation , expressed as the concentration of tbars was found in the i stage of colorectal cancer clinical advancement .
the significantly lowest concentration of tbars was shown for stage ii ( uicc ) .
conclusions the level of lipid peroxidation in cancerous cells of gastrointestinal tract indicates increased oxidative stress .
the changes of lipid peroxidation level--a marker of oxidative stress in gastrointestinal tumors appear to be closely associated with their development stages ( liver cirrhosis/malignant liver cancer ; colorectal cancer/colorectal cancer liver metastases ) and are likely to create such conditions , in which cancerous cells may proliferate , undergo gradual dedifferentiation and malignancy , and generate metastases .
cs exposure for a period of 10 weeks caused oxidative stress in the pulmonary and hepatic tissues , as evident from the increase in lipid peroxidation levels ( lpo ) and decrease in reduced glutathione ( gsh ) levels .
celecoxib ( 125 mg/kg body weight for 8 weeks ) administration to cs inhaling mice reduced the oxidative stress by decreasing the lpo levels and enhancing the gsh levels in comparison to the cs-exposed group .
cs exposure repressed the enzymatic antioxidant defense system , as evident from the decrease in catalase ( cat ) and superoxide dismutase ( sod ) activities .
co-adminstration of celecoxib considerably reversed the changes in the enzymatic antioxidant defense system .
in co-treated group , the alveolar septa were thicker than normal with apparent infiltration of inflammatory cells .
thus , the present study demonstrated that celecoxib adminstration reduced the oxidative stress-mediated risk to carcinogenesis , due to its ability to boost the antioxidant defense system .
mpl mrna is expressed at very low or undetectable levels compared with erythropoietin receptor ( epor ) , human epidermal growth factor ( erbb2 ; her2 ) , and insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor ( igf1r ) in these patient samples .
conclusions our results suggest that frequency distribution in these dna repair genes exhibited a distinctive pattern in our population which could be attributed to ethnic variation .
these results suggest that egf functional polymorphism may influence cervical cancer prognosis through an egf/epidermal growth factor receptor pathway .
results hesperidin induced the expression and transcriptional activity of ppar and promoted p53 accumulation and downregulated constitutive nf-b activity in a ppar-dependent and ppar-independent manner .
conclusions the findings of this study clearly demonstrate that hesperidin-mediated proapoptotic and antiproliferative actions are regulated via both ppar-dependent and ppar-independent pathways in nalm-6 cells .
high-dosage lycopene and -carotene significantly decreased the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen in tumor tissues and increased the levels of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-3 in plasma .
in addition , high-dosage lycopene supplementation significantly decreased the vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) levels in plasma .
in contrast , -carotene supplementation significantly increased the vegf levels , as compared with tumor control group .
conclusion lycopene and -carotene supplementation suppressed the growth of prostate tumor cells , and the effects are likely associated with reduction of proliferation ( attenuation of proliferating cell nuclear antigen expression ) and with interference of the insulin-like growth factor 1 signaling ( increased plasma insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-3 levels ) .
furthermore , the inhibition of vegf by lycopene suggests that the antitumor mechanisms of lycopene also involve anti-angiogenesis .
results leptin rapidly induced activation of jak2 , stat3 , and mapk ( erk1/2 ) signaling cascades ; it may also induce her2 transactivation via leptin-induced phospho-jak2 .
leptin was then shown to exert clear pro-apoptotic effects , increasing levels of caspase 3 , cleavage of its substrate , poly ( adp-ribose ) polymerase ( parp ) to cleaved parp(89) , levels of ck 18 , a cytoskeletal protein formed during apoptosis , and dna condensation .
kinase inhibitors indicated that leptin-induced apoptosis is probably mediated by balanced activation of jak2/stat3 , p38 mapk , and pkc pathways in pca cells .
a human leptin mutein lrb antagonist , l39a/d40a/f41a , fully inhibited leptin-induced phosphorylation of jak2 , erk1/2 , and akt/pkb , and partially abrogated effects on apoptotic proteins .
in lncap and pc3/ar cells , leptin increased ar protein levels in correlation with raised apoptotic markers .
thus , ar may mediate , at least partly , the leptin-induced apoptotic response .
conclusions leptin can clearly induce apoptosis in human pca cell lines .
in addition , it was found in human breast cancer patients that the level of e6-ap is decreased in invasive breast tumors compared to normal breast tissue .
we found that the inhibition of sp with antibodies strongly inhibit cell growth and induce apoptosis in breast , colon , and prostate cancer cell lines .
interestingly , in some cell lines sp abrogation decreased the steady state of her2 and egfr , suggesting that sp-mediated signaling is important for the basal activity of these erbb receptors .
in consequence , we observed a blockade of the cell cycle progression and the inhibition of several cell cycle-related proteins including mtor .
sp inhibition also induced cell death in cell lines resistant to lapatinib and trastuzumab that have increased levels of active her2 , suggesting that this therapeutic approach could be also effective for those cancers resistant to current anti-erbb therapies .
results gefitinib suppressed in vitro cell growth with an ic(50) = 1.36 m .
microvessel density was unchanged despite egfr inhibition ( 161,000  16,000 pixels versus 135,000  18,000 pixels , p = 0.31 ) .
a downward trend in egfr expression ( 49% of control ) and an upward trend in vegf levels ( 50% of control ) occurred in the treated group .
no effects on the tumor vasculature were noted in the setting of egfr suppression , suggesting that angiogenesis induced by sk-nep-1 cells is refractory to egfr inhibition .
interestingly , the resulting increase in vegf expression following egfr blockade , provides an alternative pro-angiogenic pathway promoting tumor survival .
results the results showed cellular alterations in the fsp-arko mouse prostate with decreased epithelial proliferation , increased apoptosis , and decreased collagen composition .
further mechanistic studies demonstrated that fsp-arko mice have defects in the expression of prostate stromal growth factors .
biological process and pathway analysis revealed that up-regulated proteins of er+ were overrepresented by proteins involved in amino acid metabolism , proteasome , and fatty acid metabolism , while up-regulated proteins of er- were overrepresented by proteins involved in glycolysis pathway .
carbidopa dose-dependently inhibited cell growth and decreased survival in lncap cell proliferation and apoptosis assays .
rmc1 inhibited the growth of a549 ( human lung adenocarcinoma ) lung cells through induction of apoptotic cell death , as evidenced by the accumulation of cell population in sub-g1 phase .
rmc1 also induced the depletion of mitochondrial membrane potential in a549 cells by regulating the expression of pro-survival and pro-apoptotic bcl-2 family members .
another experiment showed that bid protein was also activated by rmc1 , which implied that rmc1 could existed two pathways crosstalk , namely , have exogenous death receptor signaling pathway .
these results demonstrated that rmc1 induced cancer cell death by acting on both mitochondrial and death receptor apoptotic pathways , suggesting that rmc1 could be a candidate for further evaluation as a chemotherapeutic agent against human cancers .
our data revealed that 3bp induced depletion of energetic capabilities of glioma cells. 3bp induced h2o2 production as a novel mechanism of its action .
results we found that downregulated expression of notch3 correlated with significant apoptosis and inhibition of proliferation .
results the percentage of cd25+ in the cd4+ t cells did not differ between the peripheral blood and the nontumor liver tissue among the 3 groups .
the percentage of cd25+ in the cd4+ t cells in tumor tissue was positively correlated with tumor sizes ( r = 0.556 ) .
these cd4+ cd25+ lymphocytes produced transforming growth factor- and interferon- but not interleukin-10 , and were anergic to plate-coated monoclonal antibodies ( anti-cd3/anti-cd28 ) .
the characteristics of these antibodies were comparable to those of regulatory t cells .
when the infiltration lymphocytes including cd4+ cd25+ t cells were added to the mixed lymphocyte reaction activated by autologous tumor lysate-pulsed dendritic cells , the proliferation of lymphocytes was inhibited .
conclusion the increase of cd4+ cd25+ t cells in the tumor microenvironment correlates with tumor sizes .
these cd4+ cd25+ regulatory t cells appeared to suppress the immune response activated by dendritic cells .
in function assays , stable dkk4 transfected into j7 or hepg2 cells decreased cell invasion in vitro .
conversely , knocking down dkk4 restores cell invasiveness .
we show that the activated estrogen receptor can suppress the expression of bax by upregulating a group of micrornas including hsa-let-7 family members and hsa-mir-27a , thereby promoting an increased bcl2/bax ratio as well as enhanced survival and proliferation in the affected cells .
gsno inhibits phosphorylation of igf-i receptor ( igf-ir ) , egf receptor ( egfr ) and akt , but upregulates erk1/2 phosphorylation in miapaca-2 and hct-116 cells after stimulation by igf-i and egf .
on the other hand , u0126 inhibits phosphorylation of erk1/2 , but upregulates phosphorylation of igf-ir and egfr in miapaca-2 and hct-116 cells .
gsno and u0126 in combination synergistically inhibit proliferation and invasion of cancer cells .
tpen activated caspase 3/7 and induced parp-cleavage , dna-fragmentation , ros-formation and apoptotic bodies .
this inhibitor upregulated chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in a dose-dependent fashion .
ed was characterized by reduction in catalase , 8-isoprostanes , and gsh levels , with enhanced lipid peroxidation and tbars levels .
ad exhibited more pronounced oxidative status , with reduction in catalase activity and trap , intense lipid peroxidation and high levels of no , tbars , and carbonyl content .
myeloid-derived suppressor cells ( mdscs ) inhibited the proliferation and lymphokine production of wild-type cd4+ t cells in vitro .
both cd4+ and cd8+ t-cell populations were decreased in doxycycline-treated bitransgenic mice .
these studies suggest that anti-inflammatory ppar in myeloid-lineage cells plays a key role in controlling pro-inflammatory cytokine synthesis , mdsc expansion , immunosuppression , and the development of cancer .
these findings suggest a new gene regulatory mechanism by which inflammation and nf-b activation can influence er recruitment to inherently inactive er binding sites .
we present a novel gain-of-function mutation of tgf- receptor ii ( trii ) found in human oral squamous cell carcinoma ( oscc ) .
mutation of trii conferred cells higher migratory and invasive capabilities and mmp-2 activity .
taken together , our results show a novel gain-of-function trii mutation , which enhances tgf- signaling leading to more invasive phenotypic changes in human oscc .
here , we show that both normal mouse prostate tissue and human lucap35 prostate tumor explants display an emt as well as increased stem cell-like features following androgen deprivation .
in addition , we have delineated a feedback loop involving the androgen receptor and the zeb1 transcription factor that seems to mediate this transition .
here we report that short hairpin rna-mediated gene suppression of wild-type p53 or ectopic expression of mutant temperature-sensitive dominant-negative p53(v135a) increased glucose consumption and lactate production , decreased oxygen consumption and enhanced hypoxia-induced cell death in p53 wild-type human glioblastoma cells .
finally , lentiviral gene suppression of sco2 significantly enhanced tumor necrosis in a subcutaneous hct116 xenograft tumor model , compatible with impaired energy metabolism in these cells .
these findings demonstrate that glioma and colon cancer cells with p53 wild-type status can skew the warburg effect and thereby reduce their vulnerability towards tumor hypoxia in an sco2-dependent manner .
targeting sco2 may therefore represent a valuable strategy to enhance sensitivity towards hypoxia and may complement strategies targeting glucose metabolism .
we show that ahr activation suppressed mammosphere formation of mcf-7 cells and decreased the proportion of cells with high aldh-1 ( aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 ) activity .
here we report that p53 status is a key determinant of the warburg effect .
together , our results established that wild-type p53 prevents manifestation of the warburg effect by controlling pdk2 .
this agent induced g2/m arrest and increased significantly the percentage of apoptosis mainly in androgen-sensitive tumor cells confirming its growth-inhibitory effects .
belinostat effectiveness was dependent on the androgen receptor ( ar ) , since the stable transfection of ar greatly increased the efficacy of this hdac inhibitor .
her2 overexpression was observed in 25 of those patients ( 12.4% ) .
at 20 m , b19 induced significant apoptosis in cp70 cells .
live-cell imaging revealed that failure of cytokinesis , not cell fusion , promoted genome duplication .
spectral karyotyping demonstrated that aneuploidy preceded immortalization , consisting predominantly of whole chromosome losses ( 4 , 9 , 12 , 13 , 16 , and y ) and gains ( 1 , 10 , 15 , and 19 ) .
the dominant aberration of these cell lines was the presence of specific chromosomal aneuploidies .
we propose that our newly derived cancer models will be useful tools to dissect the sequential steps of genome mutations during malignant transformation , and also to identify cancer-specific genes , signaling pathways , and the role of chromosomal instability in this process .
although erlotinib did not have any effect on the proliferation of sbc-5 cells in vitro , it significantly suppressed bone and lung metastases in vivo , but not liver metastases .
an immunohistochemical analysis revealed that , erlotinib significantly suppressed the number of osteoclasts in bone metastases , whereas no difference was seen in microvessel density .
moreover , erlotinib inhibited egf-induced receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-b expression in an osteoblastic cell line ( mc3t3-e1 cells ) .
these results strongly suggested that erlotinib prevented bone metastases by affecting host microenvironments irrespective of its direct effect on tumor cells .
concurrently , hsp27 silencing promotes fas-induced apoptosis by inducing pea-15 to release fas-associating protein with a novel death domain ( fadd ) , thus allowing fadd to participate in death receptor signaling .
conversely , hsp27 overexpression promotes cell proliferation and suppresses fas-induced apoptosis .
these data identify a dual coordinated role of hsp27 in cell proliferation and fas-induced apoptosis via akt and pea-15 , and indicate that improved clinical responses to hsp27-targeted therapy may be achieved by stratifying patient populations based on tumor pten expression .
ca-stat3 transfection attenuated , whereas stat3 knockdown enhanced , the effects of metformin upon growth inhibition and apoptosis induction .
a stat3 specific inhibitor acted synergistically with metformin in reducing cell growth and inducing apoptosis .
here we show that hur maintains inflammatory homeostasis by controlling macrophage plasticity and migration .
mice lacking hur in myeloid-lineage cells , which include many of the cells of the innate immune system , displayed enhanced sensitivity to endotoxemia , rapid progression of chemical-induced colitis , and severe susceptibility to colitis-associated cancer .
the myeloid cell-specific hur-deficient mice had an exacerbated inflammatory cytokine profile and showed enhanced ccr2-mediated macrophage chemotaxis .
at the molecular level , activated macrophages from these mice showed enhancements in the use of inflammatory mrnas ( including tnf , tgfb , il10 , ccr2 , and ccl2 ) due to a lack of inhibitory effects on their inducible translation and/or stability .
conversely , myeloid overexpression of hur induced posttranscriptional silencing , reduced inflammatory profiles , and protected mice from colitis and cancer .
our results highlight the role of hur as a homeostatic coordinator of mrnas that encode molecules that guide innate inflammatory effects and demonstrate the potential of harnessing the effects of hur for clinical benefit against pathologic inflammation and cancer .
hs-asa suppressed the growth of mda-mb-231 cells by induction of g(0)/g(1) arrest and apoptosis , down-regulation of nf-b , reduction of thioredoxin reductase activity , and increased levels reactive oxygen species .
down-regulation of aib1 induced the g2/m arrest and decreased the expression of mitosis-promoting factors including cyclin a , cyclin b , and cdk1 through suppressing the akt pathway , which resulted in inhibiting cca cell proliferation .
in addition , aib1 enhanced the chemoresistance of cca cells at least in part through up-regulating the expression of antiapoptotic protein bcl-2 .
aib1 regulated the expression of bcl-2 in cca cells through activating the akt pathway as well as suppressing intracellular reactive oxygen species ( ros ) .
aib1 suppressed ros by up-regulating antioxidants such as glutathione synthetase and glutathione peroxidase , which are targets of the nf-e2-related factor 2 ( nrf2 ) , a critical transcription factor that regulates antioxidants , detoxification enzymes , and drug efflux proteins .
this study demonstrates that ros induction after treatment of cells with neocarzinostatin ( ncs ) , an ionizing radiation mimetic , is at least partly mediated by increasing histone h2ax .
increased levels of ros and cell death induced by h2ax overexpression alone or dna damage leading to h2ax accumulation are reduced by treating cells with the antioxidant n-acetyl-l-cysteine ( nac ) , the nadp(h) oxidase ( nox ) inhibitor dpi , expression of rac1n17 , and knockdown of nox1 , but not nox4 , indicating that induction of ros by h2ax is mediated through nox1 and rac1 gtpase .
h2ax increases nox1 activity partly by reducing the interaction between a nox1 activator noxa1 and its inhibitor 14-3-3zeta .
these results point to a novel role of histone h2ax that regulates nox1-mediated ros generation after dna damage .
here , we show that the human nucleoporin 153 ( nup153 ) has a role in repair of dsbs and in the activation of dna damage checkpoints .
using a mouse model of melanoma , we have now demonstrated that pdcs can directly clear tumors without the need for the adaptive immune system .
this was essential to induce skin inflammation and for the recruitment of pdcs to the skin .
silencing of plncrna-1 significantly reduced cell proliferation and induced apoptosis in cap cell lines lncap and lncap-ai .
mechanistically , plncrna-1 suppression by sirna resulted in a decrease of androgen receptor ( ar ) mrna , protein and ar downstream target .
interfering with the p53 mrna-mdm2 interaction prevents p53 stabilization and activation following dna damage .
here , we show that rassf1a inhibits breast cancer growth in vivo , and suppresses estrogen receptor ( er ) expression and function .
reconstitution of rassf1a in mcf7 cells led to decreased er levels and reduced sensitivity to estrogen ( e2 ) .
concomitantly , we observed decreased expression of id1 as well as the e2-responsive genes bcl-2 and c-myc that cooperatively contribute to the immortalization and transformation of breast epithelial cells .
this downregulation was associated with induction of cell-cycle arrest and senescence that constitute early barriers to cancer initiation and progression .
knockdown of er showed that downregulation of er suffices to increase senescence and inhibit expression of bcl-2 , c-myc and id1 .
however , enforced expression of er only partially rescued rassf1a-mediated growth inhibition and senescence , suggesting that suppression of er expression and activity is not the only mechanism by which rassf1a inhibits growth and survival of breast cancer cells .
mechanistically , rassf1a was found to suppress er expression through akt1 .
together , our data show that rassf1a acts as a tumor suppressor in er+ mammary epithelial cells , in part through inhibiting er expression and activity .
these findings suggest that rassf1a has a key role in suppressing the transformation of human breast epithelial cells and er+ breast cancer initiation .
the results indicated that apap-induced liver injury associated events as serum alt ( 80-fold ) , lipid peroxidation ( 357% ) and dna fragmentation ( 469% ) were markedly reduced to 3-fold , 134% and 162% , respectively , in the cur+apap group .
the apap-induced increase in expression of pro-apoptotic genes ( bax , caspase-3 ) decreased while expression of anti-apoptotic genes ( bcl-xl ) increased in cur preexposed mouse livers , and these changes were mirrored in the pattern of apoptotic and necrotic cell deaths .
based on the available literature , and these results , it seems likely that cur may impart global protection in vivo against drug-induced liver injury by opposing several crucial events instrumental to both apoptosis and necrosis .
we found that the effects of both 4-hydoxytamoxifen ( 4-oht ) and ici 182 , 780 ( ici ) exhibited a non-monotonic , or biphasic dose response curve ; antiestrogens at low concentrations , elicited a mitogenic signaling pathway to stimulate cell proliferation while at high concentrations , antiestrogens inhibited cell growth .
antiestrogens at 1 nm also induced phosphorylation of the mapk/erk and activated the cyclin d1 promoter activity through the src/egfr/stat5 pathways but not at 5 m .
knock-down of er-36 abrogated the biphasic antiestrogen signaling in these cells .
our results thus indicated that er-36 mediates biphasic antiestrogen signaling in the er-negative breast cancer cells and src functions as a switch of antiestrogen signaling dependent on concentrations of antiestrogens through the egfr/stat5 pathway .
the tio(2) nps dispersion with large agglomerates ( 3 min sonication and no serum in stock solution ) induced dna damage in all three cell lines , while the tio(2) nps dispersed with agglomerates less than 200 nm ( foetal serum in stock solution and sonication 15 min ) had no effect on genotoxicity .
an increased level of dna oxidation lesions detected in cos-1 and tk6 cells indicates that the leading mechanism by which tio(2) nps trigger genotoxicity is most likely oxidative stress .
treatment with anti-mir-34a inhibitor relieved the expression of impdh upon dna damage .
as a result , bpa and mxc induced the cancer cell proliferation by the upregulation of genes that promote the cell cycle and the downregulation of anti-proliferative genes , especially ones affecting the g1/s transition via er signaling .
in 81b-fb cells , downregulation of egfr , which is mediated by increased ubiquitination , and activation of downstream protein kinase b ( akt ) , glycogen synthase kinase-beta ( gsk-3 ) signalling and upregulation of snail expression were observed compared with umscc81b cells .
furthermore , forced expression of egfr resulted in partial restoration of gefitinib sensitivity and reversal of emt .
conclusion these results suggest that emt in the gefitinib-resistant cells is mediated by the downregulation of egfr and compensatory activation of akt/gsk-3/snail pathway .
additionally , mir-22 inhibition increases cell migration per se and decreases the antimigratory effect of 1,25(oh)(2)d(3) in both cell types .
for most compounds , higher levels of dna adducts accumulated in j201 cells than in primary hufs .
experiments in three additional immortal huf cell lines ( aai49 , u56 , and e2-143 ) confirmed strong differences in dna adduct levels compared with primary hufs .
our results show that using immortal hufs as surrogates for primary hufs in genotoxicity screening has limitations and that dna adduct formation is the best measure of genotoxicity of the nitro-polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons tested in hufs .
here , we show that pro-inflammatory cytokines promote glycolysis in breast cancer cells , and that the inflammation-induced mir-155 functions as an important mediator in this process .
we suggest that the mir-155/mir-143/hk2 axis may represent a common mechanism linking inflammation to the altered metabolism in cancer cells .
here we show , by analysing 162 disease-related genes from a variety of medical databases with a total of almost 20,000 observed pathogenic mutations , a significant difference in the electronic properties of the population of observed mutations compared to the set of all possible mutations .
our results have implications for the role of the electronic properties of dna in cellular processes , and hint at the possibility of prediction , early diagnosis and detection of mutation hotspots .
here , we show that human intestinal fibroblasts ( fb ) suppress apoptosis in human intestinal mc dependent on il-6 .
noteworthy , fb co-cultured with mc or treated with mmp-1 lost confluence and showed increased numbers of apoptotic cells .
the results showed that leptin/ob-r expression was significantly associated with t stage , tnm stage , lymph node metastasis , distant metastasis , differentiation and expression of p-mtor , p-70s6 kinase , and p-akt .
the results showed that leptin could stimulate the proliferation and inhibit the apoptosis of hct-116 colon cells through the pi3k/akt/mtor pathway .
ly294002 ( a pi3k inhibitor ) and rapamycin ( an mtor inhibitor ) could prevent the regulatory effects of leptin on the proliferation and apoptosis of hct-116 cells via abrogating leptin-mediated pi3k/akt/mtor pathway .
all these results indicated that leptin could regulate proliferation and apoptosis of colorectal carcinoma through the pi3k/akt/ mtor signalling pathway .
mct4 silencing impaired secretion of lactate generated through glycolysis and induced cell cycle arrest and apoptosis .
silencing mct4 resulted in intracellular acidosis , and reduction in intracellular atp production together with partial reversion of the warburg effect in ccrcc cell lines .
consistent with the potential selection of subclones enriched for mct4 expression during disease progression , mct4 expression was greater at sites of metastatic disease .
these data suggest that mct4 may serve as a novel metabolic target to reverse the warburg effect and limit disease progression in ccrcc .
in contrast to the currently approved her-2-targeted agent ( lapatinib , 1 ) , our irreversible her-1/her-2 inhibitors have the potential to overcome the clinically relevant and mutation-induced drug resistance .
the selected compound ( 19a ) showed excellent inhibitory activity toward her-1/her-2 tyrosine kinases with selectivity over 20 other kinases and inhibited the proliferation of both cancer cell types : lapatinib-sensitive cell lines ( sk-br3 , mda-mb-175 , and n87 ) and lapatinib-resistant cell lines ( mda-mb-453 , h1781 , and h1975 ) .
the excellent pharmacokinetic profiles of 19a in mice and rats led us to further investigation of a novel therapeutic agent for her-2-targeting treatment of solid tumors , especially her-2-positive breast/gastric cancer and her-2-mutated lung cancer .
importantly , all of these biomarkers were also overexpressed in 80-100% of 30 pc metastasis bone tissue specimens .
moreover , the results have indicated that the egf-egfr signaling pathway can provide critical functions for the self-renewal of side population ( sp ) cells endowed with stem cell-like features from highly invasive wpe1-nb26 cells .
also , the targeting of these oncogenic products induced the caspase-dependent apoptosis in chemoresistant sp wpe1-nb26 cells and enhanced their sensibility to the cytotoxic effects induced by docetaxel .
our results showed that intrahepatic and lung metastases were significantly inhibited together with less tumor angiogenesis by fty720 treatment .
hepatic gene expressions of cxcl10 , vegf , cxcr3 , cxcr4 induced by hepatic i/r injury were down-regulated in the treatment group .
conclusions/significance fty720 suppressed liver tumor metastasis after liver resection marred by hepatic i/r injury in a rat liver tumor model by attenuating hepatic i/r injury and reducing circulating epcs .
incubating bv-2 murine microglial cells with the ppar agonist l-165041 prevented the radiation-induced increase in : ( i ) intracellular reactive oxygen species generation , ( ii ) cox-2 and mcp-1 expression , and ( iii ) il-1 and tnf- message levels .
this occurred , in part , through ppar-mediated modulation of stress-activated kinases and proinflammatory transcription factors .
ppar inhibited nf-b via transrepression by physically interacting with the p65 subunit and prevented activation of the pkc/mek1/2/erk1/2/ap-1 pathway by inhibiting the radiation-induced increase in intracellular reactive oxygen species generation .
these data support the hypothesis that ppar activation can modulate radiation-induced oxidative stress and inflammatory responses in microglia .
we found that radiation increased surface expression of fas , dr4 and dr5 but not ltr or tnf-r1 in these cells .
sub-lethal tumor cell irradiation alone exhibited minimal cell death , but effectively sensitized three of three colorectal carcinoma cells to both trail and fas-induced apoptosis , but not ltr-induced death .
furthermore , radiation-enhanced fas and trail-induced cell death lasted as long as 5-days post-irradiation .
specific analysis of intracellular sensitizers to apoptosis indicated that while radiation did reduce bcl-x(l) and c-flip protein expression , this reduction did not correlate with the radiation-enhanced sensitivity to fas and/or trail mediated apoptosis among the three cell types .
conclusions/significance irradiation of tumor cells can overcome fas and trail resistance that is long lasting .
consistent with the " reverse warburg effect, " our results indicate that metastatic breast cancer cells amplify oxidative mitochondrial metabolism ( oxphos ) and that adjacent stromal cells are glycolytic and lack detectable mitochondria .
glycolytic stromal cells included cancer-associated fibroblasts , adipocytes and inflammatory cells .
since cancer-associated immune cells appeared glycolytic , this observation may also explain how inflammation literally " fuels " tumor progression and metastatic dissemination , by " feeding " mitochondrial metabolism in cancer cells .
finally , mct4(+) and to mm20(-) " glycolytic " cancer cells were rarely observed , indicating that the conventional " warburg effect " does not frequently occur in cancer-positive lymph node metastases .
results our results indicated that , although ad-er alone had no effect on the proliferation of hct-116 cells , the combination of ad-er with raloxifene significantly inhibited the proliferation of hct-116 cells .
the apparently apoptotic induction effects may partly explain the cytotoxicity of the two agents .
the results of the study of er on migration and invasion of hct-116 cells demonstrated that overexpression of er significantly decreased cell migration and increased invasion of cells .
with ionizing radiation , immortalization is invariably accompanied by efficient biallelic deletion of the complete ink4/cdkn2 locus .
in comparison , shd cells immortalized by the powerful polycyclic hydrocarbon carcinogen benzo(a)pyrene display transversion point mutations in the dna-binding domain of p53 coupled with ink4 alterations such as loss of expression of p15 .
epimutational silencing of p16 is the primary event associated with immortalization by nickel , a human non-genotoxic carcinogen .
as sips/ois bypass is a prerequisite for the immortalization of normal diploid human epithelial cells , our results with the shd model will provide a basis for delineating combinations of key molecular changes underpinning this important event in human carcinogenesis .
results her4 expression was up-regulated in tumor spheres compared with the expression in monolayer culture .
in mrna array analysis , her4 knockdown predominately altered genes related to cell cycle regulation .
in nbl spheres compared with monolayers , cell proliferation was decreased , and cyclin d expression was reduced .
her4 knockdown reversed cyclin d suppression .
overexpressed intracellular her4 slowed the cell cycle and induced chemoresistance .
conclusions the current results indicated that her4 protects nbl cells from multiple exogenous apoptotic stimuli , including anoikis , nutrient deficiency , and cytotoxic chemotherapy .
her4 functions as a cell cycle suppressor , maintaining resistance to cellular stress .
we found differential methylation in genes from immune-system and inflammatory pathways .
analysis of matching gene expression data demonstrated a parallel enrichment for changes in immune-system and inflammatory pathways .
the expression of kgf receptor ( kgfr ) mrna was lower in cutaneous sccs ( n = 6 ) than in normal skin samples ( n = 6 ) .
expression of kgfr mrna was detected in 6 out of 8 cutaneous scc cell lines and the levels were downregulated by 24-h treatment with kgf .
kgf did not stimulate scc cell proliferation , but it reduced invasion of scc cells through collagen .
we found that blockade of lactate influx into ecs led to inhibition of hif-1-dependent angiogenesis .
our demonstration is based on the unprecedented characterization of lactate-induced hif-1 activation in normoxic ecs and the consecutive increase in vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( vegfr2 ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) expression .
furthermore , using a variety of functional assays including endothelial cell migration and tubulogenesis together with in vivo imaging of tumor angiogenesis through intravital microscopy and immunohistochemistry , we documented that mct1 blockers could act as bona fide hif-1 inhibitors leading to anti-angiogenic effects .
together with the previous demonstration of mct1 being a key regulator of lactate exchange between tumor cells , the current study identifies mct1 inhibition as a therapeutic modality combining antimetabolic and anti-angiogenic activities .
genes involved in oxidative stress , inflammation , respiratory diseases , cancer , and tissue remodeling and fibrosis were significantly differentially expressed in the rat lungs ; however , unresolved inflammation was the single most significant biological response to pulmonary exposure to silica .
results egfr-specific sirna strongly inhibited egfr protein expression almost equally in all cell lines and inhibited cell growth and induced cell apoptosis in all nsclc cell lines studied , albeit with a different magnitude .
the cell line hcc827 , harboring an exon 19 deletion mutation , was more than 10-fold more sensitive to tki proliferation inhibition and apoptosis induction than any of the other cell lines .
the addition of egfr sirna to either tkis or cetuximab additively enhanced growth inhibition and induction of apoptosis in all five cell lines , independent of the egfr mutation status ( wild-type or sensitizing mutation or resistant mutation ) .
in this study , we demonstrate that in response to dna damage lcls knocked down for ebna3c undergo a drastic induction of apoptosis , as a possible consequence of both p53- and e2f1-mediated activities .
importantly , ebna3c was previously shown to suppress p53-induced apoptosis .
now , we also show that ebna3c efficiently blocks e2f1-mediated apoptosis , as well as its anti-proliferative effects in a p53-independent manner , in response to dna damage .
the n- and c-terminal domains of ebna3c form a stable prb independent complex with the n-terminal dna-binding region of e2f1 responsible for inducing apoptosis .
mechanistically , we show that ebna3c represses e2f1 transcriptional activity via blocking its dna-binding activity at the responsive promoters of p73 and apaf-1 apoptosis induced genes , and also facilitates e2f1 degradation in an ubiquitin-proteasome dependent fashion .
moreover , in response to dna damage , e2f1 knockdown lcls exhibited a significant reduction in apoptosis with higher cell-viability .
in the presence of normal mitogenic stimuli the growth rate of lcls knockdown for e2f1 was markedly impaired ; indicating that e2f1 plays a dual role in ebv positive cells and that active engagement of the ebna3c-e2f1 complex is crucial for inhibition of dna damage induced e2f1-mediated apoptosis .
cck-br downregulation resulted in reduced cancer cell proliferation , decreased dna synthesis , and cell cycle arrest as demonstrated by an inhibition of g(1) to s phase progression .
furthermore , cck-br downregulation increased caspase-3 activity , tunel-positive cells , and decreased x-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein expression , suggesting apoptotic activity .
pancreatic cancer cell mobility was decreased when the cck-br was downregulated , as assessed by a migration assay .
the activation of cholinergic receptors by carbachol ( 10m ) increased cell proliferation ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
however , hnscc cell proliferation was not affected by inhibition of fgfr .
when cocultured with fibroblasts , hnscc cells proliferation increased by 15% to 80% ( p &lt ; .01 ) .
furthermore , this fibroblast-enhanced tumor cell growth was suppressed by fgfr inhibition .
additionally , those tumors from mice treated with pd173074 had a smaller stromal component , decreased proliferation , and increased apoptosis .
at concentrations of 0.1 and 1 mg/ml , aps showed apoptosis-inducing effects , increased expressions of bax , nuclear p65 and cytoplasmic pi-b , and decreased expressions of bcl-2 , bcl-xl and cytoplasmic i-b .
stable ndrg1/cap43 knockdown did not induce consistent changes in the expression of epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) family proteins and c-met in two human lung cancer cell lines in vitro .
however , cell lines with ndrg1/cap43 knockdown showed markedly decreased production of the potent angiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor-a and interleukin-8 .
cells with knockdown of ndrg1/cap43 showed marked reduction of tumor-induced angiogenesis .
high microvessel density in the tumor was significantly associated with nuclear positivity for ndrg1/cap43 in both adenocarcinoma ( p = 0.003 ) and squamous cell carcinoma ( p=0.041 ) .
conclusion therefore , the expression of ndrg1/cap43 may be predictive of tumor angiogenesis and poor prognosis in nsclc .
knockdown of ecm1 suppressed migration and invasion of cca cells .
taken together , overexpression of ecm1 may contribute to cca initiation and progression through promoting migration and invasion of cca cells , its overexpression was associated with akt/nf-b signaling axis .
we found that curcumin regulated the expression of genes that are involved in the regulation of apoptosis , tumor suppressor , cell-cycle arrest , transcription factor , and angiogenesis .
in conclusion , treatment of curcumin affects the expression of genes involved in various cellular functions and plays an important role in tumor metastasis and apoptosis .
results all breast tumor and normal tissue specimens expressed a1 and a3 adenosine receptor transcripts .
however , we observed that the expression level of the a3 receptor in tumor tissues was 1.27-fold that of normal tissues , whereas there was no significant difference between the expression levels of a1 in normal and tumor tissues .
conclusions interestingly , the results of the present study indicate that breast tumors exhibit a higher level of a3 transcripts ( than normal tissues ) and support the possible key role of a3 adenosine receptor in tumor development .
ec , egc and egcg induced prostate cancer cell death , suppressed agonist-dependent androgen receptor ( ar ) activation and ar-regulated gene transcription .
the strongest hat inhibitor among them , egcg ( 50 m ) , downregulated ar acetylation and finally , ar protein translocation to nucleus from the cytoplasmic compartment was effectively inhibited in the presence of the agonist .
liver comet assays indicated that both dna strand breaks and oxidized purines and pyrimidines increased in a near-linear dose-responsive fashion , with statistically significant increases detected at cancer bioassay doses .
no dna damage was detected in bone marrow , a non-target tissue for cancer , and peripheral blood micronucleus assays were negative .
histopathological evaluation of liver from furan-exposed animals produced evidence of inflammation , single-cell necrosis , apoptosis , and cell proliferation .
in addition , genes related to apoptosis , cell-cycle checkpoints , and dna-repair were expressed at a slightly lower level in the furan-treated livers .
although a mixed mode of action involving direct dna binding cannot be ruled out , the data suggest that furan induces cancer in rat livers mainly through a secondary genotoxic mechanism involving oxidative stress , accompanied by inflammation , cell proliferation , and toxicity .
the data show , that dca ( in the low millimolar range ) is able to reduce lactate production , but there was only a slight shift to increased oxygen consumption and almost no effect on cell vitality , proliferation and apoptosis of the three cell lines investigated .
results egfr inhibition or activation strongly affected 231-br cell migration/invasion activities as assessed by an adhesion assay , a wound-healing assay , a boyden chamber invasion assay , and cytoskeleton staining .
also , egfr inhibition significantly decreased brain metastases of 231-br cells in vivo .
surprisingly , changes to egfr expression affected cell proliferation activities less significantly as determined by a 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide ( mtt ) assay , an anchorage-independent growth assay , and cell cycle analysis .
immunoblot analysis suggested that egfr drives cells ' invasiveness capability mainly through phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase b and phospholipase c  downstream pathways .
in addition , egfr was involved less in proliferation because of the insensitivity of the downstream mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway .
conclusions the current results indicated that egfr plays more important roles in cell migration and invasion to the brain than in cell proliferation progression on 231-br cells , providing new evidence of the potential value of egfr inhibition in treating bmbc .
we found that schwannoma cells , containing merlin mutations and constitutive activation of the rho/rac family of gtpases , had decreased intracellular vesicular trafficking relative to normal human schwann cells .
taken together , our data suggest loss of merlin results in the rac-dependent decrease of anterograde trafficking of exocytic vesicles , representing a possible mechanism controlling the concentration of growth factor receptors at the cell surface .
in vitro and in vivo studies in bladder cancer cell lines suggested that alterations in cxcr7 expression were associated with the activities of proliferation , apoptosis , migration , invasion , angiogenesis and tumor growth .
moreover , cxcr7 expression was able to regulate expression of the proangiogenic factors il-8 or vegf , which may involve in the regulation of tumor angiogenesis .
finally , we found that signaling by the cxcr7 in bladder cancer cells activates akt , erk and stat3 pathways .
the akt and erk pathways may reciprocally regulate , which are responsible for in vitro and in vivo epithelial to mesenchymal transition ( emt ) process of bladder cancer .
lll12 ( 100 nm ) significantly inhibited vegf-stimulated stat3 phosphorylation in huvecs , reduced their proliferation/migration and inhibited vegf-induced tube formation .
in scid mice , lll12 reduced microvessel invasion into vegf-infused matrigel plugs by 90% at a dose of 5 mg/kg daily .
treated tumors demonstrated decreased proliferation ( ki67 staining ) , and decreased microvessel density ( cd34 staining ) , but no significant increase in apoptosis ( tunel staining ) , relative to controls .
assay of angiogenic factors , using an antibody array , showed vegf , mmp-9 , angiopoietin1/2 , tissue factor and fgf-1 expression were dramatically reduced in lll12-treated tumors compared to control tumors .
conclusions these findings provide the first evidence that lll12 effectively inhibits tumor angiogenesis both in vitro and in vivo .
the pi3k/akt pathway was shown to be involved in pd98059-induced tf expression because the induction was inhibited by pi3k/akt inhibitors .
most interestingly , the egfr inhibitor erlotinib and egfr sirna also significantly suppressed pd98059- or erk sirna-induced tf promoter activity and tf protein expression .
we observed that sfn was devoid of either rna damaging and rna protective activity in human leukemic cells .
as to the cytotoxic relevance of the rna damage , we found that the treatment of cells with a mixture of spermine or doxorubicin plus sfn increased their proapoptotic potential .
the median of ang2 and vegf concentrations increased on postoperative day 7 and decreased on day 30 .
the concentrations of ang1 and svegf r1 did not change after the surgery .
lung cancer resection results in proangiogenic plasma protein changes that may stimulate tumor recurrences and metastases after early resection .
results flt-1 and flk-1 were detected in the peritoneal vasculature of uremic patients .
flt-1 expression was similar between the two groups , but flk-1 expression in group h was significantly higher than that in group l ( p = 0.001 ) .
flt-1 expression did not show significant correlations with peritoneal mvd , d4/p cr , and ppe .
however , flk-1 expression showed significant correlations with the above three parameters ( p &lt ; 0.001 for all ) .
conclusions for the first time , the expressions of flt-1 and flk-1 in peritoneal vasculature of uremic patients were detected .
flk-1 expression in peritoneal vasculature of uremic patients is closely correlated with the number of peritoneal microvessels , peritoneal small solute transport rate , and ppe .
our findings strongly suggest that flk-1 may be a crucial determinant of baseline peritoneal transport characteristics .
after antiestrogen treatment of mcf-7 breast cancer cells , cyclin e2 mrna and protein were downregulated and cyclin e2-cdk2 activity decreased .
however , this regulation was lost in tamoxifen-resistant ( mcf-7 tamr ) cells , which overexpressed cyclin e2 .
expression of either cyclin e1 or e2 in t-47d breast cancer cells conferred acute antiestrogen resistance , suggesting that cyclin e overexpression contributes to the antiestrogen resistance of tamoxifen-resistant cells .
ectopic expression of cyclin e1 or e2 also reduced sensitivity to cdk4 , but not cdk2 , inhibition .
proliferation of tamoxifen-resistant cells was inhibited by rnai-mediated knockdown of cyclin e1 , cyclin e2 , or cdk2 .
furthermore , cdk2 inhibition of e-cyclin overexpressing cells and tamoxifen-resistant cells restored sensitivity to tamoxifen or cdk4 inhibition .
cyclin e2 overexpression is therefore a potential mechanism of resistance to both endocrine therapy and cdk4 inhibition .
cdk2 inhibitors hold promise as a component of combination therapies in endocrine-resistant disease as they effectively inhibit cyclin e1 and e2 overexpressing cells and enhance the efficacy of other therapeutics .
vpa did not increase the expression of fas on the surface of osteosarcoma cells , while hydralazine did , and the combination of vpa with hydralazine increased the expression of cell-surface fas .
in contrast , the combination of vpa with hydralazine did not increase the production of soluble fas by osteosarcoma cells .
both vpa and hydralazine enhanced the susceptibility of osteosarcoma cells to fas- and nk cell-mediated cell death and the combination of vpa with hydralazine further enhanced the effects .
results our data show that the high expression of satb1 was observed in the human hepatocellular carcinoma tissue ( 26/45 ) and liver cancer cell lines with high metastatic potential .
satb1 upregulated cdk4 and downregulated p16 ( ink ) ( 4a ) to promote cell cycle progression and cell proliferation and prevented apoptosis by inhibiting the fadd-caspase-8-caspase-3 death receptor-mediated apoptosis pathway .
satb1 also induced emt concomitant with increased expression of snail1 , slug , twist and vimentin and decreased expression of e-cadherin , tight junction protein zo-1 and desmoplakin .
conclusion these data suggest that the satb1 gene may play an important role in the development and progression of liver cancer by regulation of genes related to cell cycle progression , apoptosis and emt .
here we report that induction of mitochondrial respiratory defect by tetracycline-controlled expression of a dominant negative form of dna polymerase  causes a metabolic shift from oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis and increases ros generation .
we show that upregulation of nox is critical to support the elevated glycolysis by providing additional nad+ .
suppression of nox by chemical inhibition or genetic knockdown of gene expression selectively impacts cancer cells with mitochondrial dysfunction , leading to a decrease in cellular glycolysis , a loss of cell viability , and inhibition of cancer growth in vivo .
interestingly , knockdown of foxa1 also caused a marked decrease in er , but not ahr protein levels .
these findings show that foxa1 , but not er , is essential for ahr-dependent regulation of ccng2 , assigning a role for foxa1 in ahr action .
this novel , non-invasive slo imaging technique could improve risk assessment and indication for current intraocular antiangiogenic drugs in neovascular eye diseases , as well as monitor therapeutic outcomes .
labeling of angiogenic vessels using cl can be of interest not only for functional imaging in ophthalmology but also for other conditions where localization of active angiogenesis is desirable .
we show that in mcf10a cells , loss of kibra expression displays epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) features , which are concomitant with decreased lats and yap phosphorylation , but not mst1/2 .
clinical data were correlated with inflammatory findings .
our findings demonstrated that patients bearing the luminal subtype displayed high tnf- , tgf- and enhanced oxidative stress levels associated with reduced il-12 .
her-2-enriched group exhibited higher levels of tnf- , il-12 and tgf- associated with enhanced oxidative stress .
triple-negative subtype exhibited the most aggressive profile of disease behavior , with reduction in both tnf- and tgf- , with high levels of lipid peroxidation and no .
the clinical importance of our findings lies in the fact that the inflammatory status varies in distinct ways due to molecular subtype of breast cancer , opening potential therapeutic targets to future therapies .
in the present study , we demonstrated that the stress response gene redd1 ( regulated in development and dna damage responses 1 ) was highly expressed in human osteoblast cell line ( hfob ) cells after  irradiation .
knockdown of redd1 with sirna resulted in a decrease in hfob cell numbers , whereas transfection of pcmv6-ac-gfp-redd1 plasmid dna into hfob cells inhibited mammalian target of rapamycin ( mtor ) and p21 expression and protected these cells from radiation-induced premature senescence ( ps ) .
the ps in irradiated hfob cells were characterized by significant inhibition of clonogenicity , activation of senescence biomarker sa--gal , and the senescence-associated cytokine secretory phenotype ( sasp ) after 4 or 8 gy irradiation .
our data demonstrated that redd1 is a protective factor in radiation-induced osteoblast cell premature senescence .
this model validates incorporation of components of the asmo model into patient care and clinical trials that use vegf-targeting agents .
jurkat cells growing in glutamine decrease proliferation due to cell accumulation in g0/g1 phase .
therefore , p65 activation decreases mir-23a expression , which facilitates glutamine consumption allowing leukemic cells to use this alternative source of carbon and favoring their adaptation to the metabolic environment .
in these conditions and despite the lack of cytostatic effect of the drugs , long-term treatment ( 3 months ) with the pure anti-estrogen fulvestrant induced a specific , reproducible and irreversible inhibition of er expression .
this inhibition was accompanied by loss of estrogen-induced cell proliferation and gene expression as indicated by the analysis of several estrogen-responsive genes .
er down-regulation was not linked to deregulated expression of transcription factors which drive er transcription and did not involve dna methylation or histone deacetylation .
altogether , these results demonstrate that non-cytotoxic concentrations of pure anti-estrogens affect estrogen signaling and might be relevant for the treatment for ovarian cancers .
for the first time , this work demonstrates strong influence of cell active proliferation/contact inhibition of proliferation on uptake of nps .
in this study , we examined whether activated hscs promote tumor fibrogenesis , tumor progression and distant metastasis by mediating emt via the angii/angii type 1 receptor ( at-1 ) and the sdf-1/cxcr4 axis .
significantly higher concentration of sdf-1 was released into the supernatant of li-90 cells to which angii had been added .
sdf-1 increased the proliferative activity of hscs and enhanced the activation of hscs as a growth factor .
co-culture with hscs also enhanced the migratory capability of icc cells .
these findings suggest that sdf-1 , released from activated hscs and angii , play important roles in cancer progression , tumor fibrogenesis , and migration in autocrine and paracrine fashion by mediating emt .
our mechanistic findings may provide pivotal insights into the molecular mechanism of the angii and sdf-1-initiated signaling pathway that regulates fibrogenesis in cancerous stroma , tumor progression and meta-stasis of tumor cells expressing at-1 and cxcr4 .
here , we show that errs also stimulate glycolysis under normoxia .
errs directly bind to and activate promoters of many genes encoding glycolytic enzymes , and the err-binding sites in such promoters are essential for err-mediated transcriptional activation .
errs interact with myc , and the two factors synergistically activate transcription of glycolytic genes .
furthermore , overexpression of errs increases glycolytic gene expression and lactate production .
conversely , depletion of errs in cancer cells reduces expression of glycolytic genes and glucose uptake , resulting in decreased aerobic glycolysis and cell growth .
taken together , these results suggest that errs are important transcriptional activators of the glycolytic pathway and contribute to the warburg effect in cancer cells .
morphometrical analysis has shown significant proapototic shift in bcl-2/bax ratio in tumor cells .
the noticeable decrease of mammary tumor frequency and incidence in rats after simvastatin treatment was accompanied with antiapoptotic blc-2 protein decrease and proapoptotic bax protein increase in this experiment .
immunohistochemical studies depicted decreased proliferation ( number of ki67-positive cells ) and reduced expression of egfr and its downstream effectors cyclin d1 in the tongue mucosa of 4nqo-rats treated with peg .
we showed that egfr was also markedly downregulated in scc-25 cells by peg-8000 with a concomitant induction of g1-s phase cell-cycle arrest , which was potentially mediated through upregulated p21(cip1/waf1) .
analysis of the intestines and liver revealed chemokines and purine nucleotides as candidates for attracting treg to these sites of inflammation .
extracellular atp can attract immune cells via p2y2 .
p2y2 was found to be expressed on treg cells , and we found a partial reduction of gvhd prevention when p2y2(-/-) rather than p2y2(+/+) treg cells were given .
exogenous local inflammation reduced treg-cell accumulation in the tumour , suggesting a potential clinical approach to prevent treg-cell-mediated tumour escape .
in conclusion , we demonstrate that gvhd-related inflammation reduced treg-cell numbers at the tumour sites , which may in turn help to explain the observation that patients with gvhd have a lower risk of tumour relapse .
no marked changes in ros production and tbars contents were observed between the bnf treated and den alone groups .
inflammation-related genes such as ccl2 , mmp12 , serpine1 and cox-2 significantly increased in the 0.25% bnf group .
these results suggest that 0.25% bnf is the threshold dose for liver tumor promotion , and the fact that inflammation-related genes and cox-2 protein increased in the 0.25% bnf group strongly suggests that inflammation is involved in the liver tumor promoting effect of bnf in rats .
cancer cell treatment with wzb117 led to decreases in levels of glut1 protein , intracellular atp , and glycolytic enzymes .
all these changes were followed by increase in atp-sensing enzyme amp-activated protein kinase ( ampk ) and declines in cyclin e2 as well as phosphorylated retinoblastoma , resulting in cell-cycle arrest , senescence , and necrosis .
thus , wzb117 is a prototype for further development of anticancer therapeutics targeting glut1-mediated glucose transport and glucose metabolism .
infected mice developed severe colitis and hepatitis by 10wk post-infection , progressing into colon carcinoma by 20wk post-infection , with pronounced pathology in the cecum and proximal colon marked by infiltration of neutrophils and macrophages .
transcriptional profiling revealed decreased expression of dna repair and oxidative stress response genes in colon , but not in liver .
mass spectrometric analysis revealed higher levels of dna and rna damage products in liver compared to colon and infection-induced increases in 5-chlorocytosine in dna and rna and hypoxanthine in dna .
paradoxically , infection was associated with decreased levels of dna etheno adducts .
the results support a model of inflammation-mediated carcinogenesis involving infiltration of phagocytes and generation of reactive species that cause local molecular damage leading to cell dysfunction , mutation , and cell death .
small interfering rna-mediated knockdown of sctr decreases pc12 cells proliferation and increases p27 levels .
the proproliferative effect of sr in pc12 cells is mediated , in part , by the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase ( pi3k)/serine-threonine protein kinase ( akt ) pathway .
transfection of sctr in y1 adrenocortical carcinoma cells , expressing low endogenous levels of sctr , stimulates cell proliferation also , in part , via the pi3k/akt signaling cascade .
because of the link between sr and pi3k/akt signaling , tumor cells expressing high levels of the receptor ( menx-associated primary pheochromocytoma and nci-h727 human bronchopulmonary carcinoid cells ) respond well and in a sr-dependent manner to pi3k inhibitors , such as nvp-bez235 .
indeed , the expression of bax , noxa , puma , bnip(3) , and cleaved caspase-3 was not affected by cdkn1c/p57 induction .
morphologically cdkn1c/p57-induced hcc cells became flat and lengthened in shape , accumulated the senescence-associated -galactosidase marker , and increased p16 protein expression .
evaluation of senescence in cells depleted both for hes1 and cdkn1c/p57 revealed that the senescent state really depends on the accumulation of cdkn1c/p57 .
the deficiency or inhibition of dna-pkcs renders the cells with higher susceptibility to dna damage and genome instability which in turn contributed to greater cell cycle arrest/cell death .
these findings support the fact that dna-pkcs is involved in the repair of ag-np induced genotoxicity and nhej repair pathway and dna-pkcs particularly is activated to safeguard the genome upon ag-np exposure .
results from electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy and flow cytometric assays showed a significant increase in cellular superoxide levels in s-phase cells , which was associated with an increase in glucose and oxygen consumption , and a decrease in mnsod activity .
mnsod protein carrying a k89a mutation had significantly lower activity compared with wild-type mnsod .
we propose mnsod as a new molecular player contributing to the warburg effect .
in this report , we demonstrate that downregulation of microrna-497 ( mir-497 ) as a result of dna copy number reduction is involved in upregulation of igf1-r in crc cells .
this was associated with inhibition of cell survival , proliferation and invasion , and increased sensitivity to apoptosis induced by various stimuli including the chemotherapeutic drugs cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil , and the death ligand tumour necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand .
the biological effect of mir-497 on crc cells was largely mediated by inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/akt signalling , as overexpression of an active form of akt reversed its impact on cell survival and proliferation , recapitulating the effect of overexpression of igf1-r .
in other words , overexpression of mrgd in nih3t3 induced the loss of contact inhibition , anchorage-independent growth and in vivo tumorigenesis .
we show that nm23-h1 is essential for the suppression of rac1 through inactivation of tiam1 at the sites of cell-cell contact , which plays a pivotal role in cil .
in spheroid confrontation assays u87mg cells showed only limited invasion of the glial population , but reduction of nm23-h1 expression in u87mg cells abrogated cil resulting in invasion .
moreover , the expression of ephrin-b1 in tumor cells disrupted cil and promoted invasion .
we report here that the ar gene in mda-mb-453 cells contains a g-t transversion in exon 7 , resulting in a receptor variant with a glutamine to histidine substitution at amino acid 865 ( q865h ) in the ligand binding domain .
compared with wild-type ar , the q865h variant exhibited reduced sensitivity to dht and mpa in transactivation assays in mda-mb-453 and pc-3 cells but did not respond to non-androgenic ligands or receptor antagonists .
we find that deacetylation of h3k18ac by sirt7 is necessary for maintaining essential features of human cancer cells , including anchorage-independent growth and escape from contact inhibition .
s118a cells and s167a cells exhibited increased growth and migration/invasion in vitro .
in summary , attenuated phosphorylation of er at s118 and s167 significantly affected cellular physiology and behavior in mcf-7 breast cancer cells , resulting in increased growth , migration/invasion , compromised expression of er target genes , and markedly altered gene expression patterns .
a substantial body of evidence based on in vitro and in vivo models indicates that the activation of ppar is able to inhibit hcc cell proliferation and tumor growth through inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis via the regulation of a panel of downstream effector molecules .
ppar activation also induces an inhibitory effect on hcc metastasis .
here we show that tumor-secreted mir-21 and mir-29a also can function by another mechanism , by binding as ligands to receptors of the toll-like receptor ( tlr ) family , murine tlr7 and human tlr8 , in immune cells , triggering a tlr-mediated prometastatic inflammatory response that ultimately may lead to tumor growth and metastasis .
this mechanism of action of mirnas is implicated in tumor-immune system communication and is important in tumor growth and spread , thus representing a possible target for cancer treatment .
treatment with a combination of delta-tocotrienol and cisplatin resulted in a dose-dependent , significant inhibition of cell growth , migration , invasiveness , and induction of apoptosis in nsclc cells , as compared to the single agents .
the topical treatment of goh , 30min prior to tpa ( 2g per 200l of acetone ) treatment significantly inhibited tpa-induced skin edema , hyperplasia , cox-2 induction and oxidative stress response .
consistently , goh-treated skin tumors showed reduced expression of bcl-2 and increased expression of bax in these lesions .
thus , it was concluded that goh inhibits dmba/tpa-mediated skin tumorigenesis by attenuating the ras proliferation pathway and inducing pro-apoptotic state via inhibition of oxidative stress response and inflammation .
expression of wnt2 in pancreatic cancer cells suppresses anoikis , enhances anchorage-independent sphere formation , and increases metastatic propensity in vivo .
in disused muscle , lung cancer , and h(2)o(2)-treated myotubes , we show up-regulation of the rate-limiting glycolytic enzyme muscle-type phosphofructokinase ( pfkm , &gt;2 fold , p&lt;0.05 ) and accumulation of lactate ( &gt;150% , p&lt;0.05 ) .
further , mir-320a appears to regulate oxidative stress-induced pfkm expression , and reduced mir-320a allows greater induction of glycolysis in response to h(2)o(2) treatment .
these findings suggest that oxidative stress-responsive microrna-320a may regulate glycolysis broadly within nature .
in addition to slight cell growth retardation , bglf4 elicits abnormal chromosomal structure and micronucleus formation in 293 and ncp-tw01 cells .
taken together , our study indicates that bglf4 may directly or indirectly induce a dna damage signal that eventually interferes with host dna synthesis and delays s-phase progression .
further , our combined results of gc-ms and microarray based gene expression profiling of undifferentiated and oct4-depleted hescs are consistent with the warburg effect which is increased glycolysis in embryonic cells and tumor cells in the presence of o(2) while oxidative phosphorylation ( oxphos ) is impaired or even shut down .
unexpectedly , isoproterenol and fen promoted hepg2 cell growth , but mnf reduced proliferation together with increased apoptosis .
the mitogenic responses of fen were attenuated by 3-(isopropylamino)-1-[(7-methyl-4-indanyl)oxy]butan-2-ol ( ici 118,551 ) , a (2)-ar antagonist , whereas those of mnf were unaffected .
because of the coexpression of (2)-ar and cannabinoid receptors ( cbrs ) and their impact on hepg2 cell proliferation , these g(i)/g(o)-linked receptors may be implicated in mnf signaling .
on the other hand , ctl cell death was induced under 41c condition with highest caspase-3 activity .
kx-01 inhibited activity of src and downstream mediator fak in tumors that was coincident with reduced proliferation and angiogenesis and increased apoptosis .
combination of kx-01 with paclitaxel resulted in significant regression of mda-mb-231 tumors and reduced metastasis to mouse lung and liver .
kx-01 is a potently active src/pretubulin inhibitor that inhibits breast tumor growth and metastasis .
characteristic morphological changes associated with apoptosis such as shrinkage , rounding , and floating as well as chromatin condensation were confirmed ; terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labeling ( tunel ) staining was positive as determined by fluorescence microscopy analyses .
the caspase-3 and -8 death receptor pathway was found largely responsible for the apoptotic death of hepg2 cells treated with lep .
in conclusion , lep can directly induce apoptosis of hepg2 cells , and thus may have potential chemotherapeutic applications for the treatment of hcc .
knockdown of mmset in du145 and pc-3 tumor cells decreased cell proliferation , colony formation in soft agar and strikingly diminished cell migration and invasion .
conversely , overexpression of mmset in immortalized , non-transformed rwpe-1 cells promoted cell migration and invasion , accompanied by an epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) .
depletion of twist1 in mmset-overexpressing rwpe-1 cells blocked cell invasion and emt , indicating that twist1 was a critical target of mmset , responsible for the acquisition of an invasive phenotype .
collectively , these data suggest that mmset has a role in pca pathogenesis and progression through epigenetic regulation of metastasis-related genes .
here , we report that dao , 3bp and citrate significantly inhibited angiogenesis , decreased the number of vascular branching points and shortened the length of vascular tubules .
results macc1 and c-met expressions were significantly higher in lung cancer tissues than that in neighboring normal tissue ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
macc1 and c-met expressions were associated with poor differentiation , advanced t stages , lymph node metastasis , and advanced tnm stages ( p&lt;0.05 ) of nsclc , but not with sex , age , smoking , and histological classification ( p&gt;0.05 ) .
conclusions macc1 and c-met have an important function in the differentiation , invasion , and metastasis of nsclc .
to test this hypothesis , we investigated the effects of enforced dnmt3b7 expression in neuroblastoma cells , finding a significant inhibition of cell proliferation in vitro and angiogenesis and tumor growth in vivo .
based on the predicted change to the primary amino acid sequence , 24 of the mutations were missense , 11 resulted in frameshifts with premature truncation , 9 resulted in immediate truncation at the site of the mutation and 2 were frameshifts which extended the reading frame beyond the normal stop codon .
nine tumours had intronic variants , including substitution of invariant residues at splice sites , deletion of nucleotides spanning the exon-intron junction , an intronic variant of unknown function and the polymorphism c.463+43a&gt;g .
three of these , all encoding apparent missense changes to the primary amino acid sequence , were located close to the ends of exons , reduced the strength of the splice site and function as null rather than missense variants .
one nonsense variant was not detectable in mrna but all other mutations resulting in premature truncation codons ( ptcs ) were , suggesting truncating vhl mutations may potentially generate truncated vhl protein .
our data show that the biological consequences of vhl mutations are not necessarily predictable from the sequence change of the mutation and that for the majority of vhl mutations , the potential for the generation of mutant protein exists .
il-28a and its receptor il-28ar1 mrna were detected in umuc-3 cells .
il-28a also induced the activation of p38mapk and jak2-stat2 signaling .
collectively , we suggest for the first time that the p38mapk pathway mediates il-28a-induced cell migration through mmp-9 expression by activating nf-b and ap-1 binding motifs .
when mice were fed 100 ppm bp for 28 days , bp-induced dna damage measured in esophagus , liver and lung was typically higher in xpa(-/-)p53(+/-) mice , compared with wt mice .
this result is consistent with the previously observed tumor susceptibility of xpa(-/-)p53(+/-) mice .
bpdg , the major dna adduct associated with tumorigenicity , was the primary dna adduct formed in esophagus ( a target tissue in the mouse ) , whereas total bp-dna adducts predominated in higher levels in the liver ( a non-target tissue in the mouse ) .
the addition of chl resulted in an increase of bp-dna adducts in esophagus , liver and lung of wt mice , a lowering of bpdg in esophagi of wt mice and livers of xpa(-/-)p53(+/-) mice and an increase of bpdg in livers of wt mice .
therefore , the addition of chl to a bp-containing diet showed a lack of consistent chemoprotective effect , indicating that oral chl administration may not reduce pah-dna adduct levels consistently in human organs .
our results show that inactivating mutations in notch1 and nsd1 , among others , may have an important role in skin carcinogenesis .
a lymph node biopsy revealed large-cell carcinoma with an epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) deletion mutation , l747-t751 in exon 19 .
although malignant pleural effusions carried the same egfr mutation , progressive pleural effusions after treatment with chemotherapy , gefitinib , and erlotinib did not show any egfr mutation .
a cell line established from the pleural effusion 3 days before the patient expired also did not harbor the egfr mutation .
an increased risk for a shorter metastasis-free survival of patients with a ct genotype ( rs975263 ) was observed in younger colon cancer patients with stage i or ii ( p = 0.041 , n = 18 ) .
conclusion in summary , the identification of coding macc1 snps in primary colorectal tumors does not improve the prediction for metastasis formation or for patients ' survival compared to macc1 expression analysis alone .
genomic alterations were identified in 50% of patients including 11 pik3ca and 8 akt1 mutations .
our study showed that array cgh is feasible in the context of daily practice and , in combination with pik3ca/akt1 mutations , identifies a significant number of actionable molecular alterations that allow driving patients into specific targeted agents .
results : high vpi was strongly associated with several markers of aggressive breast cancer , such as negative oestrogen receptor ( er ) status ( p=0.003 ) , high tumour cell proliferation by ki-67 ( p=0.004 ) , high p53 expression ( p=0.001 ) , and five profiles for the basal-like phenotype ( odds ratios ( or ) ; range 3.4-6.3 ) .
conclusion : microvessel proliferation is a novel marker of ongoing angiogenesis and was associated with aggressive tumour features , basal-like phenotypes , interval presentation , and prognosis in this series of breast cancer .
pe dose-dependently suppressed all aforementioned elevated inflammatory markers .
our results provide substantial evidence that suppression of the inflammatory cascade through modulation of nf-b signaling pathway may represent a novel mechanism of liver tumor inhibitory effects of pe against experimental hepatocarcinogenesis .
data presented here coupled with those of our earlier study underline the importance of simultaneously targeting two interconnected molecular circuits , namely , nrf2-mediated redox signaling and nf-b-regulated inflammatory pathway , by pomegranate phytoconstituents to achieve chemoprevention of hcc .
our findings show that c-myc deficiency initiates the warburg effect along with a reduction of mitochondrial respiration .
in contrast , oct1 deficiency reduced glycolysis and enhanced oxidative phosphorylation efficiency .
our findings establish the impact of oct1 , klf4 and c-myc on cancer bioenergetics and evidence a link between oncosecretomics and cellular bioenergetics profile .
tnfaip3 mrna levels were significantly decreased in tumors compared with adjacent non-neoplastic mucosa ( p &lt ; 0.0001 ) and loss of heterozygosity of 6q23.3 ( tnfaip3 ) was detected in 17% of cases , whereas only 2.5% of the investigated specimens displayed tnfaip3 gene mutations .
the proliferative and invasive activities and/or tgf- production of dld-1 cells increased by il-23 stimulation , whereas no change was observed in the activities of mip101 and km12c cells .
while intratumoral heterogeneity affected both the tp53- mutational status and the loh1p/19q status , all tumors with intratumoral heterogeneity shared the r132 idh1- mutation as a common feature in both their microdissected components .
however , the detection of divertive tumor cell clones in morphological distinct tumor components sharing idh1- mutations as early event may provide insight into the tumorigenesis of true mixed gliomas .
ectopic expression of p53 mutants repressed the expression of mir-130b and triggered zeb1-dependent emt and cancer cell invasion .
loss of an endogenous p53 mutation increased the expression of mir-130b , which resulted in reduced zeb1 expression and attenuation of the emt phenotype .
furthermore , re-expression of mir-130b suppressed mutant p53-induced emt and zeb1 expression .
these data provide a novel understanding of the roles of p53 gain-of-function mutations in accelerating tumor progression and metastasis through modulation of the mir-130b-zeb1 axis .
in plant cells , the most genotoxic nanofibers were those derived from green , white , and brown cotton , and curaua , while genotoxicity in animal cells was observed using nanofibers from brown cotton and curaua .
an important finding was that ruby cotton nanofibers did not cause any significant dna breaks in the cell types employed .
conclusion this work demonstrates the feasibility of determining the genotoxic potential of nanofibers derived from plant cellulose to obtain information vital both for the future usage of these materials in agribusiness and for an understanding of their environmental impacts .
here , we demonstrate that 22rv1 cells with reduced retroviral transcription show reduced tumor angiogenesis and increased necrosis of the primary tumor derived from xenografted cells in scid mice when compared to the parental cell line .
furthermore , these data are supported by in vitro cell invasion and differentiation assays .
collectively , our data suggest that the presence of xmrv transcripts at least partially contributes to 22rv1 characteristics observed in vitro and in vivo with regard to migration , invasion and tumor angiogenesis .
ectopic expression of mir-34a decreased tumor cell invasion and metastasis , inhibited the formation of promigratory cytoskeletal structures , suppressed activation of the rho gtpase family , and regulated a gene expression signature enriched in cytoskeletal functions and predictive of outcome in human lung adenocarcinomas .
we identified several mir-34a target genes , including arhgap1 , which encodes a rho gtpase activating protein that was required for tumor cell invasion .
these overlap with human cnas including nf1 , which is deleted or mutated in 27.7% of all breast carcinomas .
this should be informative for treatment of the significant fraction of patients whose tumors bear nf1 mutations .
in human tumor cells , malat1 expression was abrogated using zinc finger nucleases .
unexpectedly , the quantitative loss of malat1 did neither affect proliferation nor cell cycle progression nor nuclear architecture in human lung or liver cancer cells .
we identified f621l , a627p , f691l and y842c mutations in flt3/itd that confer varying levels of resistance to flt3 tki .
western blotting confirmed that some flt3 tki were ineffective at inhibiting flt3 autophosphorylation and signaling through map kinase , stat5 and akt in some mutants .
these results indicate a growing number of flt3 mutations that are likely to be encountered in patients .
a significantly lower ki67 cell proliferation index was also observed compared with single agent and control treatment groups .
aromatase expression was found mainly in macrophages infiltrating preneoplastic and tumorous areas of the lungs , whereas er was found in both macrophages and tumor cells .
the increase of glucose transporter 1 in vhl , and of hexokinase 2 in vhl and sdhb , confirmed their glycolytic profile .
in agreement with the cell model and in support of decoupling of glycolysis , the krebs cycle and oxidative phosphorylation ( oxphos ) , sdhb tumors showed increased lactate dehydrogenase levels .
although there was no direct evidence for increased reactive oxygen species production , elevated superoxide dismutase 2 expression may reflect elevated oxidative stress in sdhb-derived pheos/pgls .
for the first time , we show that despite dysfunction in complex ii and evidence for a glycolytic phenotype , the warburg effect does not seem to fully apply to sdhb-pheos/pgls with respect to decreased oxphos .
overall , 32% of patients had invasive cancer in their reexcision specimens , and 51% of those with the tn subtype had residual invasive disease on reexcision compared with 30% to 31% for other subtypes .
on univariate analysis , age , tumor size , margin status , lymphovascular invasion , nodal status , and tn subtype were associated with elevated risk of residual invasive cancer .
we identified a novel germline fh missense mutation , p.his192asp , and the subsequent loss of heterozygosity in uok268 .
the uok268 cells had severely compromised oxidative phosphorylation and increased glycolytic flux .
ingenuity pathways analysis of human mitochondria-focused cdna microarray ( hmitchip3 ) gene chip data confirmed the altered mrna expression patterns of genes involved in several important pathways , such as lipid metabolism , apoptosis , and energy production/glycolysis .
uok268 provides a unique model of a primary cell line demonstrating an enforced , irreversible warburg effect and , combined with uok262 , provides a unique invitro preclinical model for studying the bioenergetics of the warburg effect in human cancer .
forced expression of mir-7 in aggressive breast cancer cell lines suppressed tumor cell monolayer proliferation , anchorage independent growth , three-dimensional growth in matrigel , migration and invasion .
rescue of fak expression reversed mir-7 suppression of migration and invasion. mir-7 also inhibited primary breast tumor development , local invasion and metastatic colonization of breast cancer xenografts .
thus , mir-7 expression is decreased in metastatic breast cancer , correlates with the level of epithelial differentiation of the tumor and inhibits metastatic progression .
here , mir-133b was found to be associated with tumor stage , the extent of regional lymph node involvement , stage , visceral pleura or vessel invasion and egfr mrna expression in chinese patients with nsclc .
moreover , mir-133b transfection may modulate apoptosis , invasion and sensitivity to egfr-tki through the egfr signaling pathways , especially in egfr-addicted nsclc cells .
taken together , our findings show that mir-133b can inhibit cell growth of nsclc through targeting egfr and regulating its downstream signaling pathway .
this finding has important implications for the development of targeted therapeutics for a number of egfr-addicted cancers .
in vivo , the tumor metastasis rates were 9/10 in normal saline group and 2/10 in n-desulfated heparin group ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
in vitro , n-desulfated heparin inhibited significantly bfgf protein and mrna expression of gastric carcinoma cells ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
n-desulfated heparin can inhibit the metastasis of gastric cancer through inhibiting tumor bfgf expression and tumor angiogenesis with no obvious anticoagulant activity .
results of the 1361 patients , 714 ( 52.5% ) were found to have lymph node metastasis .
the frequency of lymph node metastasis increased as the tumor invasion increased .
paratracheal nodes were the most frequent metastasis nodes ( 15.9% ) .
the frequency of lymph node metastasis was 9.8% in the neck , 18.0% in the upper mediastinum , 18.9% in the middle mediastinum , 11.8% in the lower mediastinum , and 28.4% in the abdomen .
logistic regression analysis revealed tumor length ( p&lt;.001 ) , tumor invasion ( p&lt;.001 ) , tumor differentiation ( p=.003 ) , and lymphovascular invasion ( p&lt;.001 ) were risk factors for lymph node metastasis .
tumor location ( p&lt;.001 ) , tumor invasion ( p=.003 ) , lymphovascular invasion ( p=.004 ) , and paratracheal lymph node involvement ( p=.002 ) were identified as risk factors for cervical lymph node metastasis .
conclusions metastases were more frequent in the abdomen than in the neck .
herein , we provide evidence that tumor-induced gr-mdscs , endowed with the potential of suppressing conventional t lc , surprisingly impair tgf-1-mediated generation of cd4(+)cd25(+)foxp3(+) itregs .
these findings thus indicate that gr-mdscs from tb hosts have the unanticipated ability to restrict immunosuppressive tregs .
cholangiocarcinomas with distant metastasis had a strongly-positive expression rate ( 75% , 9/12 ) , which was much higher than those without distant metastasis ( 29% , 8/28 ) ( x2=7.410 , p&lt;0.01 ) .
conclusions the expression of machr m3 is influenced by the extent of differentiation , distant metastasis and the site of cholangiocarcinoma .
it also plays a key role in the proliferation and metastasis of cholangiocarcinoma .
high ratios of pkm1/pkm2 inhibit the glycolysis rate , but elevate the glucose flux into oxidative phosphorylation .
these results demonstrate that mirnas ( mir-124 , mir-137 and mir-340 ) impair colorectal cancer growth by counteracting the warburg effect due to regulating alternative splicing of the pkm gene .
the results revealed that il-1 led to the upregulation of tgf- in mscs .
the inflammatory cytokine-induced promotive effect of mscs on rm-1 cells in vivo was inhibited by tgf- sirna .
the results of our study suggest that inflammatory cytokines induce the immunosuppressive function of mscs which enables prostate cancer cells to escape from immune injury .
moreover , honokiol inhibited the invasion of t98g cells , suggesting that honokiol has an anti-metastatic effect .
tunel assay showed that honokiol significantly induced apoptosis in t98g cells at doses of 10 m or more .
the induction of apoptotic cell death was mediated by the downregulation of the anti-apoptotic protein bcl-2 and the upregulation of the pro-apoptotic protein bax .
taken together , the results of this study suggest that honokiol exerts an anticancer effect by preventing metastasis and inducing apoptotic cell death of brain tumor cells .
the same diverse responses were observed when the growth factor receptors igf1r or insr were overexpressed .
down-regulation of igf1r or insr isoform a ( insra ) also inhibited only proliferation of cancer cells .
moreover we observed that the receptors of the igf network mutually influence their expression and exert redundant functions , thus underscoring the functional molecular network formed by igf , ins , igf1r , and insr .
collectively we found that both igf1r and insra have oncogenic effects in prostate cancer , but the igf network also has important physiological functions in the noncancerous prostate .
result on the basis of our review of japanese literature , the risk factors for bcc metastasis are occurrence on the genitalia , diameter of more than 3 cm , deep invasion of tumor cells into extradermal structures , and infiltrative/morpheic histological type .
the treatment of siha cells with hesperetin ( ic(50,) 650m ) showed a marked concentration- and time-dependent inhibition of proliferation and induced the g2/m phase in a dose-dependent manner after 24h .
there was an attenuation of mitochondrial membrane potential with increased expression of caspase-3 , caspase-8 , caspase-9 , p53 , bax , and fas death receptor and its adaptor protein fas-associated death domain-containing protein ( fadd ) , indicating the participation of both death receptor- and mitochondria-related mechanisms .
furthermore , hesperetin-induced apoptosis was confirmed by tunel and annexin v-cy3 .
this study shows that hesperetin exhibits a potential anticancer activity against human cervical cancer cell lines in vitro through the reduction in cell viability and the induction of apoptosis .
a significant difference in pgf mean levels was found between the two cohorts .
however , in both samples , we observed a strong correlation of pgf levels with ageing and sex , men displaying pgf levels significantly higher than women .
our results showed that curcumin inhibits tpa-induced mmp-9 expression and cell invasion through suppressing nf-b and ap-1 activation .
these results indicate that curcumin-mediated inhibition of tpa-induced mmp-9 expression and cell invasion involves the suppression of the pkc , mapk and nf-b/ap-1 pathway in mcf-7 cells .
curcumin may have potential value in restricting breast cancer metastasis .
results multivariate analysis showed vascular invasion ( p = 0.019 ) , vegf overexpression ( p = 0.033 ) , and high postoperative serum carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) levels ( p = 0.022 ) were independent predictors of postoperative relapse .
we found that innate immune cells could manifest cancer immunoediting activity in the absence of adaptive immunity .
our results suggest that in the absence of adaptive immunity , nk cell production of ifn- induces m1 macrophages , which act as important effectors during cancer immunoediting .
here , we report that secreted frizzled-related protein 1 ( sfrp1 ) , a secreted antagonist of wnt signaling , is oversecreted upon cellular senescence caused by dna damage or oxidative stress .
sfrp1 is necessary for stress-induced senescence caused by these factors and is sufficient for the induction of senescence phenotypes .
we present evidence suggesting that sfrp1 functions as a secreted mediator of senescence through inhibition of wnt signaling and activation of the retinoblastoma ( rb ) pathway and that cancer-associated sfrp1 mutants are defective for senescence induction .
we first demonstrated that the nanoparticles do not interfere with the proliferation process .
then , we observed significant differences in the tumor evolution and the angiogenesis process after shallow and deep inoculation .
as this effect was not observed upon treatment of braf wild-type b16f10 tumors , we conclude that the decreased frequency of immune cells correlates to braf(v600e) inhibition in tumor cells and is not due to an off-target effect of plx4720 on immune cells .
our data suggest that vemurafenib may negatively affect the immune activity within the tumor .
pulmonary metastases were detected in 26 patients by either cxr or ct scan .
median time to pulmonary metastasis was 19 months ( 95 percent ci , 12-35 ) .
according to an univariate analysis , with log-rank test , identified four factors associated with pulmonary metastasis : tumor stage t4 , nodal stage n2 , elevation of serum cea &gt ; 3.4 ng/ml and presence of lymphovascular invasion(lvi) .
according to a multivariate analysis , with cox regression , found an elevation of serum cea &gt ; 3.4 ng/ml which was an independent factor that was significantly associated with pulmonary metastasis ( hazard ratio ( hr ) , 8.9 ; 95 percent ci , 3.6-22 ; p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
the present study revealed that 50 percent of patients who had more than one of these risk factors would eventually develop pulmonary metastases .
conclusion an elevation of serum cea &gt ; or = 3.4 ng/ml was found as an independent factor that was significantly associated with pulmonary metastasis whereas tumor stage t4 , nodal stage n2 and presence of lymphovascular invasion ( lvi ) were not independent clinicopathologic features associated with subsequent pulmonary metastases .
chest ct scan has greater sensitivity than chest radiography in detection of pulmonary metastasis and should be considered as an imaging study of choice for intensive chest surveillance for patients who had more than one of these risk factors .
treatment with dmi could induce autophagic cell death characterized by the formation of autophagosome and the elevated level of autophagic protein beclin-1 and cellular redistribution of marker lc3 .
meanwhile , dmi inhibited the activation of pi3k-akt-mtor pathway which is considered as a negative regulator of autophagy .
furthermore , dmi activated perk-eif2 and atf6 of endoplasmic reticulum ( er ) stress pathway , while knockdown of perk with the perk-specific short interfering rna ( sirna ) could obviously attenuate the autophagy .
the results strongly suggested that dmi could induce autophagy through the perk-er stress pathway in c6 glioma cells .
the ubiquitin-ligase skp2 negatively regulates p27(kip1) and , during tis , is translocated to the cytoplasm before its expression is decreased in senescent cells .
overexpression of skp2 blocks the effects of azq on senescence and p27(kip1) induction .
we also find that stable long-term short hairpin rna knockdown of skp2 decreases proliferation but does not generate the complete senescence phenotype .
we conclude that skp2 participates in regulating tis but , alone , is insufficient to induce senescence in cancer cells .
the present study suggests that mgn-3 may represent an immunologically relevant product for activating innate immunity in multiple myeloma patients and warrants further testing to demonstrate clinical efficacy .
in the 3 cell lines , sorafenib suppressed the cell proliferation mainly by blocking the mek/erk downstream pathway at the posttranscriptional level , which in turn regulated related gene expression via a feed-back mechanism .
methylated pcdh8 was significantly associated with lymph node metastasis in a logistic regression analysis .
ectopic expression of pcdh8 in silenced gastric cancer cells significantly inhibited cell migration and induced apoptosis .
we now report that aberrant expression of cdk1 interferes with apoptosis and promotes the formation of polyploid senescent cells during tcs .
these polyploid senescent cells represent important transition states through which escape preferentially occurs .
enhanced shh signaling by recombinant human shh n-terminal peptide ( rshh-n ) promoted hepatoma cell adhesion , migration and invasion , whereas blockade of shh signaling with shh neutralizing antibody or cyclopamine suppressed hepatoma cell adhesion , migration and invasion .
the rshh-n-mediated hepatoma cell migration and invasion was blocked by mmp-specific inhibitors or neutralizing antibodies to mmp-2 and mmp-9 .
further investigations showed that activation of akt and fak were required for rshh-n-mediated upregulation of mmp-2 and mmp-9 , cell migration and invasion .
taken together , our findings suggest that shh pathway induces cell migration and invasion through fak/akt signaling-mediated mmp-2 and mmp-9 production and activation in liver cancer .
results patients with kras codon 12 mutant mcrc showed a broad range of outcome when treated with cetuximab-based first-line regimens .
patients with tumors bearing a kras p.g12d mutation showed a strong trend to a more favorable outcome compared to other mutations ( overall survival 23.3 vs. 14-18 months ; hazard ratio 0.66 , range 0.43-1.03 ) .
conclusion the present analysis suggests that kras codon 12 mutation may not represent a homogeneous entity in mcrc when treated with cetuximab-based first-line therapy .
there was no kras mutation and the egfr expression level in the tumor tissue was 2+ ; ideal conditions for the immunotherapy .
nevertheless , from our perspective the combination of folfiri and cetuximab is quite a promising therapeutic option for patients with metastatic anal cancer .
we observed that either aae6 or prototype e6 proteins alone were sufficient to immortalize phfks , although aae6 was more potent in doing so .
our findings are in line with epidemiological data that the aa variant of hpv16 confers an increased risk over the european prototype for cervical cancer , as evidenced by a superior immortalization , transformation , and metastatic potential .
strikingly however , both transcripts are regulated antagonistically during cell-cycle progression and there are functional differences between the isoforms with regard to the dna damage response ; mcph1-fl localizes to phosphorylated h2ax repair foci following ionizing irradiation , while mcph1e9-14 was evenly distributed in the nucleus .
cxcl17 expression did not impart nih3t3 cells with oncogenic potential in vitro , but cxcl17-expressing nih3t3 cells could form vasculature-rich tumors in immunodeficient mice .
our data showed that cxcl17-expressing tumor cells increased immature cd11b(+)gr1(+) myeloid-derived cells at tumor sites in mice and promoted cd31(+) tumor angiogenesis .
although cxcl17 expression could not increase the number of cd11b(+)gr1(+) cells in tumor-burdened scid mice or promote metastases of low metastatic colon cancer cells , the existence of cxcl17-responding myeloid-derived cells caused a striking enhancement of xenograft tumor formation .
conclusions/significance these results suggest that aberrant expression of cxcl17 in tumor cells recruits immature myeloid-derived cells and promotes tumor progression through angiogenesis .
necropsy revealed local growth of the orthotopic colon xenografts with extensive invasion , microscopic serosal metastasis , and metastatic foci in the corresponding hepatic regions showing focal 99mtco4- uptake .
conclusions the present proof-of-concept study provided a rationale for employing a radionuclide reporter gene for the specific visualization of spontaneous liver metastasis in living mice .
this unique animal model of clinically relevant and externally detectable liver metastasis will be a powerful tool for investigating tumor biology and developing novel therapies for cancer metastasis .
these data suggests that lpa can reduce ( 1 ) cell viability/proliferation , ( 2 ) uptake of [ 18f]-fdg and ( 3 ) lactate production and increase apoptosis in all investigated cell lines .
hct-1116 and dld-1 cells showed no significant egf-dependent cell proliferation ; ht-29 and hct-8 exhibited an egf-dependent proliferation , with hct-8 cells to be the most responsive with significant egfr phosphorylation upon treatment with egf .
in that respect , pmab impedes the signaling cascade mediated by egfr intracellular phosphorylation and activity of focal adhesion kinase ( fak ) as well as the egf-induced invasive and migratory potential of colon cancer cells .
the obtained data demonstrated that pmab is a specific blocker of egf-mediated egfr activation , resulting in a significant inhibition of colon cancer cell proliferation in early stages of growth , migration and invasiveness as well as of matrix effector implicated in cancer progression .
in support of their primary importance in mediating the immunosuppressive effects of mir-210 , coordinate silencing of ptpn1 , hoxa1 , and tp53i11 dramatically decreased tumor cell susceptibility to ctl-mediated lysis .
our findings show how mir-210 induction links hypoxia to immune escape from ctl-mediated lysis , by providing a mechanistic understanding of how this mirna mediates immunosuppression in oxygen-deprived regions of tumors where cancer stem-like cells and metastatic cellular behaviors are known to evolve .
in the present study , we show that the monocarboxylate transporter 2 ( mct2 ) protein was tumor-selectively expressed in human colorectal malignancies and knockdown of mct2 induces mitochondrial dysfunction , cell-cycle arrest , and senescence without additional cellular stress in colorectal cancer cell lines .
moreover , the reactive oxygen species ( ros ) scavenger , n-acetylcysteine , blocked mct2 knockdown-induced growth arrest and cellular senescence , indicating a pivotal role of ros in this pathway .
dramatic induction of mitochondrial superoxide generation and decrease in atp production was observed , indicating that mitochondrial dysfunction is the major mechanism underlying mct2 knockdown-induced ros generation .
senescence-associated dna damage was also evident from the increase in promyelocytic leukemia bodies , h2ax foci , and sahf .
conversely , overexpression of mct2 prevented doxorubicin-induced ros accumulation ( p = 0.0002 ) and cell growth inhibition ( p = 0.001 ) .
the peritumoral lymphatic vessel density of cervical cancer ( 18.75  4.3 ) was significantly higher than the intratumoral lymphatic vessel density of cervical cancer ( 11.71  4.9 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
the peritumoral lymphatic vessel pi of cervical cancer ( 0.324  0.06 ) was notably higher than the intratumoral lymphatic vessel pi of cervical cancer ( 0.232  0.06 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
peritumoral lymphatic vessel density and peritumoral lymphatic vessel were clearly associated with the lymph node metastasis ( p = 0.001 and p = 0.002 , respectively ) and lymphovascular space invasion ( p = 0.024 and p = 0.01 , respectively ) .
in vitro experiments tested the ability of macrophages to induce senescence in primary cells .
inflammation modulating micrornas were identified in senescence colon tissue for further investigation .
three of these patients had detectable pik3ca mutations in bone marrow cancer cells .
primary tumor samples were available for four of the six patients assessed for pik3ca status in their bone metastases .
for each of these , the pik3ca mutation status was the same in the primary and metastatic sites .
pik3ca mutations occur frequently in breast cancer bone metastases .
the pik3ca mutation status in bone metastases samples appears to reflect the pik3ca mutation status in the primary tumour .
breast cancer patients with bone metastases may be candidates for treatment with selective pik3ca inhibitors .
we observed significant increase for angiogenic factors ( ang-1 , ang-2 , hepatocyte growth factor , and vascular endothelial growth factor ) and cyclooxygenase at circulatory level , as well as at mrna level , as compared to healthy controls except insignificant increase for ang-1 at circulatory level .
we have also observed the significant positive correlation of all angiogenic factors with cyclooxygenase .
the increased malignant cell behavior induced by map17 is associated with an increase in reactive oxygen species ( ros ) production , and the treatment of map17-expressing cells with antioxidants results in a reduction in the tumorigenic properties of these cells .
the map17-dependent increase in ros and tumorigenesis relies on its pdz-binding domain because disruption of this sequence by point mutations abolishes the ability of map17 to enhance ros production and tumorigenesis .
we also demonstrated that the expression of coronin 3 was remarkably higher in lymph lode metastases than in primary gastric cancer tissues , and over-expression of coronin 3 was correlated with the increased clinical stage and lymph lode metastasis .
stable knockdown of coronin 3 by this lentiviral vector could efficiently inhibit the migration and invasion of mkn45 gastric cancer cells .
in contrast , up-regulation of coronin 3 significantly enhanced migration and invasion of mkn28-nm cells .
in addition , knockdown of coronin 3 significantly reduced liver metastasis in mice after tail vein injection of gastric cancer cells .
the results showed that pu-erh tea significantly increased the fractions of nave t lymphocytes , cd8(+)cd28(+) t lymphocytes and nk cells in the peripheral blood , but decreased the levels of il-6 in aged mice .
facs-based cell cycle analysis revealed a significant increase in the sub-g0/g1 , g1 , and depletion in the s phase populations .
a concomitant down-regulation of cyclins d1/d3 and cdk 4/6 in lncap cells was detected by western blot .
annexin-v-fitc labeling and caspase-3 cleavage assays showed that 7-epi-nemorosone induced apoptotic events .
major signal transduction elements such as p38 mapk and akt/pkb as well as androgen receptor ar and psa production were found to be down-regulated after exposure to the drug .
erk1/2 protein levels and phosphorylation status were down-regulated accompanied by up-regulation but inhibition of the activity of their immediate upstream kinases mek1/2 .
additionally , akt/pkb enzymatic activity was effectively inhibited at a similar concentration as for mek1/2 .
we have found that sif pretreatment significantly inhibited tpa induced oxidative stress , proinflammatory cytokines production and activation of nf-b .
thus , our results suggest that inhibitory effect of sif on tpa-induced cutaneous inflammation includes inhibition of proinflammatory cytokines , attenuation of oxidative stress , activation of nf-b and expression of cox-2 .
we show that protein expression of foxm1 is severely and rapidly downregulated upon contact inhibition , probably by inhibition of erk activity , which then leads to decreased expression of cyclin a and polo-like kinase 1 .
vice versa , ectopic expression of foxm1 prevents the decrease in cyclin a and polo-like kinase 1 and causes a two-fold increase in saturation density indicating loss of contact inhibition .
hence , we show that downregulation of foxm1 is required for contact inhibition by regulating expression of cyclin a and polo-like kinase 1 .
results hypoxia changed the morphology of b16f10 cells in vitro from the cobblestone-like to mesenchymal-like strips , which was accompanied by increased cellular adhesion and invasion .
in experimental metastasis model mice , treatment with luteolin ( 10 or 20 mg/kg ) reduced metastatic colonization in the lungs by 50% .
prmt6 knock-down ( kd ) results in a p21 derepression in breast cancer cells , which is p53-independent , and leads to cell cycle arrest , cellular senescence and reduced growth in soft agar assays and in severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ) mice for all the cancer lines examined .
we finally show that bypassing the p21-mediated arrest rescues prmt6 kd cells from senescence , and it restores their ability to grow on soft agar .
we conclude that prmt6 acts as an oncogene in breast cancer cells , promoting growth and preventing senescence , making it an attractive target for cancer therapy .
inhibition of pkc  by 30m rottlerin ( r30 ) and 2.3nm g 6976 caused expression of both the senescent cell marker-externalized ps measured by facs analysis and aggregated band 3 detected by western blotting .
in contrast to this observation , but in keeping with literature , pkc activation by phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate ( pma ) also led to the expression of senescence markers .
neoplastic cells of the ovarian carcinoma expressed eg-vegf in 73.33% of the cases , as a cytoplasmic granular product of reaction .
we found a strong correlation between the expression of eg-vegf at protein level and tumor stage , grade , and microscopic type .
the expression of eg-vegf was found in patients with stage iii and iv , but not in stage ii .
our results showed that eg-vegf expression is an indicator not only of the advanced stage , but also of ovarian cancer progression .
based on these data , we concluded that eg-vegf expression in tumor cells of the epithelial ovarian cancer is a good marker of unfavorable prognosis and could be an attractive therapeutic target in patients with advanced-stage tumors , refractory conventional chemotherapy .
suv39h1 overexpression remarkably enhanced hcc cell clonogenicity , whereas knockdown of suv39h1 substantially suppressed hcc cell proliferation and induced cell senescence .
in addition , ectopic expression of suv39h1 increased the migratory ability of hcc cells , whereas a reduced migration rate was observed in suv39h1 knockdown cells .
the significance of suv39h1 in hcc was further demonstrated in a nude mice model ; suv39h1 knockdown drastically inhibited in vivo tumorigenicity and abolished pulmonary metastasis of hcc cells .
conclusion our study demonstrated that suv39h1 up-regulation contributed to hcc development and metastasis .
we show that despite the efficient inhibition of nfat1 activity , fk506 promotes tumor growth , whereas csa inhibits it due to a delay in cell cycle progression and induction of necroptosis .
we conclude that csa slows cell cycle progression and induces necroptosis of human carcinoma cell lines in a tgf- , nfat- , nfb- and pi3k/mtor-independent fashion .
nevertheless , our data suggest that csa , in addition to its anti-inflammatory capacity , may target transformed colon and esophagus carcinoma cells without affecting non-transformed cells , promoting beneficial tumoristatic effects .
pelp1/mnar downregulation substantially reduced cell proliferation , and the cells in which pelp1/mnar expression was knocked down also exhibited a decreased migration and invasion ability , as shown by boyden chamber and invasion assays .
these results suggest that pelp1/mnar plays a role in endometrial cancer progression and metastasis , and that pelp1/mnar may be a potential therapeutic target for endometrial cancer .
the transfect efficiency of both wild and mutation type were in a high level in 3 days after transfected , which lasted to 6 d .
rt-pcr amplified the total rna extracted from the transfected cos-7 cells could find increased mrna level of mxi1 gene .
here , we show for the first time that halofuginone therapy decreases development and progression of bone metastasis caused by melanoma cells through the inhibition of tgf- signaling .
in addition , halofuginone reduced expression of tgf- target genes that enhance bone metastases , including pthrp , ctgf , cxcr4 , and il11 .
also , cell apoptosis was increased in response to halofuginone .
in nude mice inoculated with 1205lu melanoma cells , a preventive protocol with halofuginone inhibited bone metastasis .
furthermore , mice with established bone metastases treated with halofuginone had significantly less osteolysis than mice receiving placebo assessed by radiography .
thus , halofuginone is also effective in reducing the progression of melanoma bone metastases .
moreover , halofuginone treatment reduced melanoma metastasis to the brain , showing the potential of this novel treatment against cancer metastasis .
il-6 , saa , crp were related to depth of invasion , vegf and saa were correlated with lymph node metastasis .
in this study , we demonstrated the anti-inflammatory effects of lmwf on lps-induced inflammation in macrophages through the regulation of signalling pathways , including its effect on the attenuation of inflammatory cytokines , such as il-1 , il-1 and tnf- , and the degradation of phosphorylated p38 mapk , erk1/2 and jnk .
this study also demonstrates that lmwf might block no as well as the expression of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) , which subsequently inhibits the inos and cox-2 expression induced by lps .
based on these findings , we suggest that lmwf might have great potential as an external pathogen prevention and intervention agent for inflammatory diseases .
because mast cells ( mcs ) appear to be the major source of tph-1 and restoration of tph-1 in the mc compartment in vivo compensates for the defect , these experiments introduce a fundamentally new mechanism of mc-mediated immune suppression that broadly impacts multiple arms of immunity .
in addition , bortezomib dose-dependently inhibited the growth of mscs and prevented the production of angiogenic factors including vegf ( vascular endothelial growth factor ) , hgf ( hepatocyte growth factor ) , and bfgf ( basic fibroblast growth factor ) in mscs .
in conclusion , bortezomib prevented the angiogenesis mediated by mscs .
in contrast to ra alone , this led to either permanent differentiation or senescence after 14days of combined treatment followed by chemical removal .
senescence was dependent in part on synergistic akt and erk activation. p21 was also strongly induced , but in contrast to oncogene-induced senescence , p53 was not activated .
vanadium-based inhibitors thus serve strongly to enhance ra's ability to drive differentiation and a novel form of senescence in neuroblastoma cells .
both src-1 and sirt-1 overexpression in dsfx-treated mcf-7 cells reduced cxcr4 cellular levels implying that both co-regulators are crucial factors in the determination of the metastatic potential of breast cancer cells .
this upregulation of cxcr4 was implicated in increased cell motility and enhanced chemotactic responses ( migration and invasion ) to cxcl12 treatment in vitro .
the increases in cxcr4 expression and metastatic potential in gastric cancer cells exposed to hypoxia were blocked by hif-1-specific shrna .
our results indicate that hypoxia upregulates cxcr4 in gastric cancer cells in a hif-1-dependent manner , and that upregulation of cxcr4 plays a role in cancer cell migration and invasion .
vav3 or ar3 knockdown greatly attenuated cell proliferation , soft agar growth , and ligand-independent ar activity .
vav3 potently enhanced the transcriptional activity of ar3 and another clinically relevant ar splice variant , arv567es .
in the present study , we found that gsps inhibited colon tumor-induced angiogenesis and , thus , the growth of colon tumor xenografts on the chick chorioallantoic membranes .
the mechanisms of their action were related to inhibiting the expression of both vegf and ang1 through scavenging reactive oxygen species .
previous studies have demonstrated that the chemopreventive effects of gsps on colon cancer are associated with their growth inhibitory and apoptosis-inducing effects .
palm-ptk6-yf expressing syf cells are transformed and overcome contact inhibition , form colonies in transformation assays , proliferate in suspension and form tumors in a xenograft model .
we demonstrate that cadm1 can specifically suppress metastasis without affecting primary tumor growth .
unexpectedly , cadm1 did not alter tumor-cell-autonomous properties such as proliferation or invasion , but required the host's adaptive immune system to affect metastasis .
the metastasis-suppressing effect of cadm1 was lost in mice lacking t cell-mediated immunity , which was partially phenocopied by depleting cd8(+) t cells in immune-competent mice .
our data show a novel function for cadm1 in suppressing metastasis by sensitizing tumor cells to immune surveillance mechanisms , and this is the first report of a heritable metastasis susceptibility gene engaging tumor non-autonomous factors .
pfge for low sssdf and high dssdf profile samples and positive controls treated with dnase , to induce dsdna breaks , showed a more intense band of about 48 kb , which fits the toroid model of dna compaction in sperm , pointing out that some nuclease activity may be affecting their sperm dna in rpl patients .
inhibition of erk activity by u0126 suppressed dv-induced expression and secretion of vegr in becs .
while dv was capable of phosphorylating akt we show that akt phosphorylation does not play a role in dv's induction of vegf expression or secretion using two separate inhibitors , ly294002 and akt iv .
lastly , we demonstrate that vegf activity is critical for dv increases in bec proliferation , as well as angiogenesis in a bec-neuronal co-culture system .
under steady-state conditions , immune system parameters in c-myc(fl/fl) lysm(cre/+) mice appeared normal , including the abundance of different subsets of bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells , precursors and circulating cells , macrophage density , and immune organ structure .
increased proportions of leukocytes belonging to the innate immune system were also demonstrated in splenocytes of sr/cr mice .
the results point to the potential involvement of innate immune cells in cancer immunology .
importantly , this differentially regulated immune response of sr/cr mice could not be found in response to challenge with the lymphoma cell line el-4 .
results we found that parthenolide suppresses proliferation , invasion , and tumour- induced angiogenesis of glioblastoma cells .
molecular studies demonstrated that parthenolide suppresses gene and protein expression of angiogenic factors .
furthermore , parthenolide reduced akt phosphorylation and activated mitochondrial signalling , suggesting that the antitumour function of parthenolide may be mediated not only by the inhibition of nf-b but also by the inhibition of akt signalling and the activation of apoptotic proteins .
here , we report that mouse cyclin d1(ke/ke) mecs ( deficient in cyclin d1 activity ) upregulate an autophagy-like process but fail to implement erbb2-induced senescence in vivo .
however , highlighting its dual role during tumorigenesis , downregulation of autophagy led to an increase in senescence in cyclin d1(ke/ke) mecs .
autophagy upregulation was also confirmed in human mammary epithelial cells ( hmec ) subjected to genetic and pharmacologic inhibition of cyclin d1 activity and , similar to our murine system , simultaneous inhibition of cdk4/6 and autophagy in hmecs enhanced the senescence response .
collectively , our findings suggest a previously unrecognized function of cyclin d1 in suppressing autophagy in the mammary epithelium .
this process involves the decreased expression of the stemness-related genes oct-4 and nanog and the invasion-related gene mmp-9 .
here , we demonstrate that targeting tumor vasculature with lower vascular-normalizing doses , but not high antivascular/antiangiogenic doses , of an anti-vegf receptor 2 ( vegfr2 ) antibody results in a more homogeneous distribution of functional tumor vessels .
furthermore , lower doses are superior to the high doses in polarizing tumor-associated macrophages from an immune inhibitory m2-like phenotype toward an immune stimulatory m1-like phenotype and in facilitating cd4(+) and cd8(+) t-cell tumor infiltration .
these findings indicate that vascular-normalizing lower doses of anti-vegfr2 antibody can reprogram the tumor microenvironment away from immunosuppression toward potentiation of cancer vaccine therapies .
given that the combinations of high doses of bevacizumab with chemotherapy have not improved overall survival of breast cancer patients , our study suggests a strategy to use antiangiogenic agents in breast cancer more effectively with active immunotherapy and potentially other anticancer therapies .
mobilization of sleeping beauty transposons in nscs induced the immortalization of astroglial-like cells , which were then able to generate tumors with characteristics of the mesenchymal subtype of gbm on transplantation , consistent with a potential astroglial origin for mesenchymal gbm .
sequence analysis of transposon insertion sites from tumors and immortalized cells identified more than 200 frequently mutated genes , including human gbm-associated genes , such as met and nf1 , and made it possible to discriminate between genes that function during astroglial immortalization vs. later stages of tumor development .
this mutagenesis strategy is faster and simpler than conventional transposon screens and can potentially be applied to any tissue stem/progenitor cells that can be grown and differentiated in vitro .
flow cytometry analysis of freshly obtained gists revealed that neutrophils constituted a minimal percentage of intratumoral immune cells .
elevated blood nlr appears to represent systemic inflammation in patients with high-risk gist .
we found that the transient treatment of dox induced emt and enhanced the in vitro migration ability of cancer cells .
inhibition of -catenin by indomethacin ( indo ) or sirna suppressed dox-induced emt and decreased cancer cell migration ability .
indo and other -catenin inhibitors may have a potential implication in prevention of gastric cancer metastasis .
conclusions these data indicate that overexpression of greb1 promotes cell proliferation and increases the clonogenic ability in breast cancer cells .
moreover , il6/stat3 modulates estrogen-induced greb1 transcriptional activity in breast cancer cells .
butyrate is the primary energy source of normal colonocytes and is metabolized to acetyl-coa , which was shown to be important not only for energetics but also for hat activity .
consequently , butyrate stimulated the proliferation of normal colonocytes and cancerous colonocytes when the warburg effect was prevented from occurring , whereas it inhibited the proliferation of cancerous colonocytes undergoing the warburg effect .
mdscs expand extensively during inflammation and tumor progression in mice and humans and can enhance tumor growth by repressing t cell-mediated antitumor responses .
these results demonstrate that tnfr-2 signaling promotes mdsc survival and accumulation and helps tumor cells evade the immune system .
there was a negative correlation between the protein levels of zeb1 and e-cadherin in lscc tissues ( r=-0.714 , p&lt;0.001 ) ; in addition , it was found that zeb1 protein expression in lscc tissues was significantly higher than that in the neighboring normal lung tissues ( p&lt;0.05 ) , and its expression was also significantly higher in patients with lymph node metastases and distant metastases compared to those patients without metastatic disease ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
it was lower in patients with lymph node metastasis and distant metastasis compared to patients without metastatic disease ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
moreover , significantly less zeb1 sirna-transfected cells migrated through transwell chambers in the lscc tissue than that in the control groups ( untransfected or transfected with control sirna , p&lt;0.01 ) .
on the other hand , the expression of sirna against zeb1 promotes e-cadherin expression and suppresses the invasive ability conferred by e-cadherin .
in conclusion , our data suggested that overexpression of the zeb1 gene is possibly associated with the occurrence , development , invasion of lscc .
it was concluded that p120ctn plays a pivotal role in the proliferation and metastasis of pancreatic carcinoma , suggesting that p120ctn is a novel target for pancreatic carcinoma treatment .
we report that lactate , the end-product of glycolysis , inhibits prolylhydroxylase 2 activity and activates hif-1 in normoxic oxidative tumor cells but not in warburg-phenotype tumor cells which also expressed lower basal levels of hif-1 .
lactate activates hif-1 and triggers tumor angiogenesis and tumor growth in vivo , an activity that we found to be under the specific upstream control of the lactate transporter monocarboxylate transporter 1 ( mct1 ) expressed in tumor cells .
because mct1 also gates lactate-fueled tumor cell respiration and mediates pro-angiogenic lactate signaling in endothelial cells , mct1 inhibition is confirmed as an attractive anticancer strategy in which a single drug may target multiple tumor-promoting pathways .
the findings indicate that chronic inhalation exposure of the rats to volatile petroleum fractions at different concentrations results in a significant ( 2.5-fold ) increase , compared to the spontaneous level , in the occurrence of chromosomal aberrations in the bone marrow cells in a number of generations .
in addition to chromosomal structural abnormalities , there are genomic changes ( aneuploidy , polyploidy ) .
there is a tendency towards an increased rate of petroleum-induced chromosomal aberrations in a number of generations ( p , f1 , and f2 ) in the rat bone marrow cells .
the maximum mutagenic effect of volatile petroleum fractions was found when used at concentrations of 10 and 100 mg/l upon long-term chronic exposure during three generations ( p1 , f1 , and f2 ) .
the findings are indicative of the mutagenic activity of volatile petroleum fractions , which is likely to pose a potential risk from environmental pollution to biota and population health in the area of intensive oil extraction and refining .
results phosphorylated erk1/2 was detected in 58/80 ( 72.5% ) ibdc tissues , and was associated with higher tnm stage and lymph node metastasis , but not patient age or tumor size .
individually , epidermal growth factor ( egf ) , and interleukin ( il)-1 activated erk1/2 , increased cell migration and invasion , mmp-9 expression and activity , ap-1 activation in vitro and the expression of p-erk1/2 was positively correlated with egf expression levels , as well as il-1 , mmp-9 and c-fos in ibdc tissue samples .
co-stimulation with egf and il-1 synergistically increased erk1/2 and ap-1 activation , cell migration and invasion , and mmp-9 expression and activity .
inhibition of erk1/2 using u0126 or sirna abolished egf and/or il-1-induced cell migration and invasion in a dose-dependent manner .
conclusion activated erk1/2 was associated with higher tnm stage and lymph node metastasis in ibdc .
both in vitro and in vivo studies indicated that erk-1/2 activation may increase the metastatic ability of ibdc cells .
growth and inflammatory factors synergistically induced ibdc cell migration and invasion via erk1/2 signaling , ap-1 activation and mmp-9 upregulation .
patients presented with renal cell cancer at an early age ( 33 years , range 15 to 62 ) , metastatic kidney cancer developed in 4 and some families had no manifestation other than kidney tumors .
an additional family with 6 individuals found to have clear cell renal cell cancer that presented at a young average age ( 47 years , range 40 to 53 ) was identified with a germline sdhc mutation ( r133x ) metastatic disease developed in 2 of these family members .
a patient with a history of carotid body paragangliomas and an aggressive form of kidney cancer was evaluated from a family with a germline sdhd mutation .
conclusions sdh mutation associated renal cell carcinoma can be an aggressive type of kidney cancer , especially in younger individuals .
depletion of wig1 prohibited mirna-mediated p21 mrna decay and resulted in premature senescence .
in addition , these findings indicate that fine-tuning of p21 levels by wig1 is essential for the prevention of cellular senescence .
however , 0.1m prazosin caused remarkable up-regulation of il6 gene and slightly up-regulation of ccl2 gene in cell line b. in conclusion , high therapeutic concentration of prazosin can up-regulate angiogenic il6 and ccl2 genes in human hcc cells susceptible to amphotericin b-induced oxidative stress .
the number of p53-positive foci in mitotic cells and its localization to centrosomes increased with replicative and premature senescence .
these data suggest a possible association between localization of p53 protein and numerical centrosome aberrations in replicatively or prematurely senescent cells .
tumor uptake was 1.2%id/g with strong correlations between gene expression and tracer uptake , for integrin (v)r = 0.76 , integrin (3)r = 0.75 and vegf-a r = 0.81 ( all p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
( 64)cu-nodaga-c(rgdyk ) is a promising new angiogenesis pet tracer with potential for human use .
sequence analysis revealed kras g12a mutation but not nras and hras mutation of plt-2 but not motn-1 .
another signaling molecule affecting ras-signaling pathway , shp2 , which has been frequently mutated in juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia ( jmml ) , did not show mutation .
taken together , kras g12a is important for il-2-independent growth of plt-2 cells and suggests the possibility of involvement of kras mutation with disease progression .
we found that angiotensin ii promoted cell proliferation and upregulated the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor a ( vegf-a ) in mcf-7 cells .
losartan downregulated the expression of vegf-a in mcf-7 cells treated with angiotensin ii .
candesartan downregulated the expression of vegf-a in mice bearing mcf-7 xenografts and inhibited tumor growth and angiogenesis .
at1r and vegf-a expression correlated with increased microvascular density in 102 breast cancer patients .
our data suggest that at1r antagonists might be useful to suppress breast cancer by inhibiting the angiotensin ii .
the proportion of cd4+cd25+/cd4+ spleen lymphocytes of tumor bearing mice ( 18.8%  1.26% ) was found to be significantly higher than that in normal mice ( 9.99%  1.90% ) ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
anti-tumour immunity was suppressed , and this might be associated with the increase of tregs .
results tumor size , histological grade , lymphovascular invasion , mulifocality , estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor status were significant independent predictors for sentinel lymph node metastasis ( all p&lt;0.01 ) .
patients with predictive value&lt;16% had a frequency of sentinel lymph node metastasis of 0.9% .
conclusions the risk factors for sentinel lymph node metastasis in our study were consistent with those in the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center nomogram .
the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center nomogram is a useful tool that could accurately predict the probability of sentinel lymph node metastasis in our breast cancer patients .
here , x-ray structures of mouse tdp2-dna complexes reveal that tdp2 -2-helix- dna damage-binding ' grasp ' , helical ' cap ' and dna lesion-binding elements fuse to form an elongated protein-dna conjugate substrate-interaction groove .
structural , mutational and functional analyses support a single-metal ion catalytic mechanism for the exonuclease-endonuclease-phosphatase ( eep ) nuclease superfamily and establish a molecular framework for targeted small-molecule blockade of tdp2-mediated resistance to anticancer topoisomerase drugs .
compared with the known status of these variants based on the multifactorial likelihood model , the sensitivity of the hdr assay for pathogenic mutations was estimated at 100% [ 95% confidence interval ( ci ) : 75.3%-100% ] and specificity was estimated at 100% ( 95% ci : 81.5%-100% ) .
our results show that the multivalent pseudopeptide n6l inhibited matrigel invasion of mda-mb-435 cells in a modified boyden chamber model .
the implication of timp-3 in n6l-induced inhibition of cell invasion was evidenced by sirna silencing experiments showing that the loss of timp-3 expression abrogated the effect of n6l .
the inhibition of tumor cell invasion by n6l demonstrated in this study , in addition to its previously established inhibitory effect on tumor growth and angiogenesis , suggests that n6l represents a promising anticancer drug candidate warranting further investigation .
compound 1 dose-dependently inhibited proliferation and tube formation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( vegf-a-huvecs ) , without affecting cell viability in native huvecs .
in addition , 1 decreased the expression of vegf receptor-2 ( vegfr-2 ) , cox-2 , and prostaglandin e(2) ( pge(2) ) in vegf-a-transfected huvecs .
these effects were accompanied by a reduction of the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and c-jun n-terminal kinase , whereas it increased the phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk ) .
the antitumor activity of 1 may be associated with antiangiogenic actions via inhibiting vegfr-2 and inflammatory mediators involved in the mapk signaling pathway .
we show that t(regs) play a critical role during the priming of immune responses in mice .
in the absence of t(regs) , the avidity of the primary immune response was impaired , which resulted in reduced memory to listeria monocytogenes .
this cell line proliferated rapidly in low-glucose culture medium but also demonstrated contact inhibition in high-glucose culture medium .
this effect was not due to changes in cell cycle progression or dna-repair-related gene expression .
post-irradiation dsb rejoining was delayed , corresponding with the insufficient dna-pk activation , although chromosomal aberration frequencies did not increase .
the nuclear egfr translocation , necessary to increase the dna-pk activity in response to oxidative stress , was blocked .
there was an increase in both the mutant frequency and the number of g:c/t:a transversions in p53 treated with bpq in ogg1 yeast but not in apn1 yeast .
knocking out apn2 increased mutagenesis in the apn1 cells .
these studies suggest that ogg1 is involved in repairing the oxidative damage caused by bpq , apn1 and apn2 have redundant functions and that the stand bias seen in lung cancer may not be due to impaired repair of oxidative lesions .
vip increased adhesion but decreased expression of metalloproteinases , mmp2 and mmp9 , as well as cell migration and vegf expression and secretion in a498 but not in hk2 cells .
vip enhanced ros levels and decreased nuclear levels of -catenin and nfb p50-subunit in a498 cells , suggesting neuropeptide involvement in the observed decrease of metastatic ability in clear-cell carcinoma .
in conclusion , present data point to a role of vip in preventing invasion and metastasis in ccrccs and support its potential therapeutic usefulness in this disease .
here , we demonstrate that ucp2 inhibition by genipin or ucp2 sirna strongly increases reactive oxygen species ( ros ) production inhibiting pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell growth .
we also show that ucp2 inhibition triggers ros-dependent nuclear translocation of the glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase ( gapdh ) , formation of autophagosomes , and the expression of the autophagy marker lc3-ii .
consistently , ucp2 over-expression significantly reduces basal autophagy confirming the anti-autophagic role of ucp2 .
furthermore , we demonstrate that autophagy induced by ucp2 inhibition determines a ros-dependent cell death , as indicated by the apoptosis decrease in the presence of the autophagy inhibitors chloroquine ( cq ) or 3-methyladenine ( 3-ma ) , or the radical scavenger nac .
intriguingly , the autophagy induced by genipin is able to potentiate the autophagic cell death triggered by gemcitabine , the standard chemotherapeutic drug for pancreatic adenocarcinoma , supporting the development of an anti-cancer therapy based on ucp2 inhibition associated to standard chemotherapy .
our results demonstrate for the first time that ucp2 plays a role in autophagy regulation bringing new insights into mitochondrial uncoupling protein field .
they showed strong reactivity and specificity toward acr-dg , weaker reactivity toward crotonaldehyde- and trans-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-derived 1,n(2)-propanodeoxyguanosines , and weak or no reactivity toward 1,n(6)-ethenodeoxyadenosine and 8-oxo-deoxyguanosine .
these antibody-based methods provide useful tools for the studies of acr-dg as a cancer biomarker and of the molecular mechanisms by which cells respond to acr-dg as a ubiquitous dna lesion .
depletion of csn5 suppressed cell proliferation , and induced premature senescence characterized by upregulation of senescence-associated--galactosidase activity and increased expression of cdk inhibitors .
csn5-depleted cells exhibited enhanced activation of the pi3 kinase-akt pathway , and chemical inhibition of this pathway reduced the level of senescence .
thus , csn5 is suggested to be a novel target in cancer therapy and for drugs against tumor cells harboring mutated p53 .
in this study , we used temozolomide ( tmz ) , which inhibited the viability of gbm cells mainly by inducing autophagic cell death and explored the role of nrf2 downregulation on autophagy induced by tmz in gbm cells .
knockdown of nrf2 also led to a significant increase of autophagic vacuoles and acidic vesicular organelles ( avos ) , revealed by trans-mission electron microscopy ( tem ) and acridine orange ( ao ) staining using flow cytometry .
collectively , these findings demonstrate that knockdown of nrf2 can enhance the basal level of autophagy in the u251 glioma cell line .
furthermore , after the treatment with tmz ( 100m ) for 3 days , the u251-si-nrf2 transfected cells showed less viability rate by cell counting kit-8 ( cck-8 ) assay and the levels of autophagy increased obviously through analysis of western blot and ao staining using flow cytometry .
taken together , our results suggest that knockdown of nrf2 may enhance autophagy induced by tmz in the u251 glioma cell line , which should be further evaluated for novel anticancer activity .
knocking down fut1 expression markedly inhibited proliferation of nci-n87 , which highly expressed egfr and was sensitive to egfr deprivation .
furthermore , fut1 sirna downregulated the total amount of her2 protein , phosphorylation of her2 and egfr , and phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( erk ) in this cell line .
our results suggest that knockdown of fut1 downregulates her2 signaling via egfr downregulation .
bmr cells proliferated actively for 7-20 population doublings , after which the cells began secreting ifn- , and the cultures underwent massive necrotic cell death within 3 d .
the necrotic cell death phenomenon was independent of culture conditions or telomere shortening .
interestingly , this cell behavior was distinct from that observed in another long-lived and cancer-resistant african mole rat , heterocephalus glaber , the naked mole rat in which cells display hypersensitivity to contact inhibition .
sequestration of p53 and rb proteins using sv40 large t antigen completely rescued necrotic cell death .
our results suggest that cancer resistance of bmr is conferred by massive necrotic response to overproliferation mediated by p53 and rb pathways , and triggered by the release of ifn- .
our results showed significantly reduced expression of non-homologous end joining ( nhej)-mediated dna repair genes , dna pkcs , dna ligase4 , and xrcc4 leading to cell cycle arrest at g2/m phase .
our results showed that expression of nhd13 fusion gene resulted in impaired nhej-mediated dna break repair .
knockdown of sirt6 increased the expression of proinflammatory cytokines ( il-1 , il-6 , il-8 ) , cox-prostaglandin system , ecm remodelling enzymes ( mmp-2 , mmp-9 and pai-1 ) , the adhesion molecule icam-1 , and proangiogenic growth factors vegf and fgf-2 ; cell migration ; cell adhesion to leukocytes .
taken together , these results demonstrate that the loss of sirt6 in endothelial cells is associated with upregulation of genes involved in inflammation , vascular remodelling , and angiogenesis .
sirt6 may be a potential pharmacological target for inflammatory vascular diseases .
vegfr2 was overexpressed in tumor cells in only one out of 24 cases , but was found overexpressed in the vessels in 6 cases .
pdgfr- and  were found to be over-expressed in the ependymoma tumor cells in seven out of 24 cases ( 29.2 % ) .
cd31 density , cd105 density and pci did not correlate with expression of pdgfrs .
overexpression of pdgfr- and  in tumor cells and overexpression of pdgfr- in tumor endothelium had prognostic significance and this was maintained in multivariate analysis for overexpression of pdgfr- in tumor cells ( 2 year progression free survival was 16.7  15.2 for cases with overexpression of pdgfr- in the tumor vs. 74.5  15.2 for those with low/no expression , hazard ratio = 5.78 , p = 0.04 ) .
a number of angiogenic factors are expressed in ependymoma tumor cells and tumor endothelium .
preliminary evidence suggests that the expression of pdgfrs could have a prognostic significance in ependymoma .
this data suggests that pdgfrs should be further evaluated as targets using novel pdgfr inhibitors .
results after microinjection of rag1 specific zfn mrnas in 623 zygotes of inbred lew/ztm rats 59 offspring were born from which one carried a 4 bp deletion .
this frame shift mutation led to a premature stop codon and a subsequently truncated rag1 protein confirmed by the loss of the full-length protein in western blot analysis .
conclusion the rag1 mutant rat will serve as an important model for transplantation studies .
furthermore , it may be used as a model for reconstitution experiments related to the immune system , particularly with respect to different populations of human lymphocytes , natural killer cells and autoimmune phenomena .
the four mirna mimics increased senescent-associated -galactosidase ( sa--gal ) staining , p53 and p21(cip1/waf1) expression , and reactive oxygen species ( ros ) production .
in contrast , concomitant knockdown of the four mirnas by antisense inhibitors increased the ckii protein level and suppressed ckii inhibition-mediated senescence .
finally , ckii overexpression antagonized senescence induced by the four mirna mimics .
therefore , the present results show that mir-186 , mir-216b , mir-337-3p , and mir-760 cooperatively promote cellular senescence through the p53-p21(cip1/waf1) pathway by ckii downregulation-mediated ros production in hct116 cells .
two-hundred and ninety-two patients ( 92.7% ) were positive for muc1 and 216 ( 60.5% ) were positive for muc4 .
muc1 expression was not correlated with any other clinicopathological variables such as age , gender , depth of invasion , lymph node metastasis , lauren classification or recurrence .
in human cervical carcinoma cells , rnai-mediated cs knockdown induced morphological changes characteristic of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) .
this switch accelerated cancer cell metastasis and proliferation in in vitro assays and in vivo tumor xenograft models .
notably , cs knockdown cells exhibited severe defects in respiratory activity and marked decreases in atp production , but great increases in glycolytic metabolism .
this study directly links the warburg effect to tumor malignancy via induction of the emt phenotype .
administration of lycopodine down-regulated the expression of 5-lipoxygenase and the 5-oxo-ete receptor ( oxe receptor1 ) and egf receptor , and caused up-regulation of cytochrome c with depolarization of mitochondrial inner membrane potential , without palpable change in p53 activity , resulting in apoptosis , cell arrest at g0/g1 stage and ultimately reduced proliferation of cancer cells ; concomitantly , there was externalization of phosphotidyl serine residues .
functional studies in ethnically diverse populations may provide a more comprehensive involvement of innate immunity in identifying the disease-associated variants for the etiology of bladder cancer .
cd exposure also induced oxidative stress , yet no inhibition of catalase gene activity was observed .
hence , cd at sublethal levels down-regulates msh2/msh6 expression primarily via ros as signaling molecules .
using a high-resolution genome-wide mapping technique , followed by extensive locus-specific validation assays , we have identified 24 cpg islands that display significantly higher levels of cpg methylation in immortalized cell lines as compared to primary murine fibroblasts .
because pcg-associated aberrant dna methylation is a hallmark of several human malignancies , our methylation data suggest that epigenetic reprogramming of pluripotency genes may initiate cell immortalization .
consistent with methylome alterations , global gene expression analysis reveals that the vast majority of genes dysregulated during cell immortalization belongs to gene families that converge into the mek-erk pathway .
unlocking alternative epigenetic routes for cell immortalization will be paramount for understanding crucial events leading to cell transformation .
we find that englerin a treatment induces necrotic cell death in renal cancer cells but not in normal kidney cells .
we further show that autophagic and pyroptotic proteins are unaffected by the compound and that necrotic signaling in these cells coincided with production of reactive oxygen species and calcium influx into the cytoplasm .
there was strong dna damage-induced hyperactivation of parp-1 in pol  nullcells , but not in wild-type cells .
in the case of mms treatment , par synthesis did not lead to cell death in the pol  null cells , but instead resulted in increased parylation of the nonhomologous end-joining ( nhej ) protein ku70 and increased association of ku70 with parp-1 .
inhibition of the nhej factor dna-pk , under conditions of mms-induced parp-1 hyperactivation , enhanced necrotic cell death .
these data suggest that parp-1 hyperactivation is a protective mechanism triggering the classical-nhej dna repair pathway when the primary alkylated base damage repair pathway is compromised .
in addition , thrombospondin-1 regulation in hypoxia proved to be important for ccrcc cell migration and invasion .
since ercc1 and ercc2/xpd are both located on chromosome 19q13.3 , haplotype analysis of all 5 snps was also conducted .
therefore , our findings suggest an important role of ercc1 codon 118 polymorphisms for a biomarker to cbp in the chinese occupational population .
our results showed that ku70 -/- mle cells were more sensitive to radiation-induced apoptosis than control cells , although x-irradiation activated caspase-3 and caspase-7 , and cleaved parp in both cell lines .
the elimination in ku70 -/- mle cells was slower than that in control cells , suggesting that dsb repair activity in the ku70 -/- mle cells is lower than that in control cells .
these findings suggest that ku70 might play a key role in the inhibition of apoptosis through the dsb repair pathway in lung epithelial cells .
our findings also suggest that these cell lines might be useful for the study of ku70 functions and the ku70-dependent dsb repair pathway in lung epithelial cells .
both ultraviolet ( uv ) and the uv mimetic compound oxaliplatin and the radiomimetic compound doxorubicin promoted apoptosis by upregulating the tumor suppressor p73 .
however , only the uv and oxaliplatin-induced upregulation of p73 mediated by the transcription factor egr1 , but not the doxorubicin-induced upregulation mediated by the transcription factor e2f1 , was enhanced by cry1/cry2 double mutation .
accordingly , egr1 downregulation reduced oxaliplatin-induced apoptosis , whereas e2f1 downregulation reduced doxorubicin-induced apoptosis .
our findings establish distinct roles for cryptochromes in intrinsic apoptosis induced by uv mimetic and radiomimetic agents .
in this study , we identified migration inducting gene-7 ( mig-7 ) protein as critical for cox-2/prostaglandin e2 ( pge2)- and akt/gsk-3-dependent tumor invasion/metastasis .
rnai-mediated attenuation of mig-7 blocked cox-2/pge2- and akt/gsk-3-mediated migration/invasion effects .
furthermore , mig-7 protein inhibited protein phosphatase 2a to sustain akt/gsk-3 phosphorylation and cancer-cell migration/invasion .
cancer cells overexpressing mig-7 exhibited increased expression of zeb-1 and twist in parallel with epithelial-mesenchymal transition , metastasis and cancer lethality .
mig-7 thus offers a theranostic target for cancer metastases arising from aberrant activation of the cellular cox-2/pge2 and akt/gsk-3 signaling pathways .
flow cytometric analysis showed that the cells were arrested in g0/g1 phase .
nuclear morphology , annexin-v/pi staining , and expression of cleaved caspase-3 all confirm that op-b does not induce apoptosis .
instead , based on results from both transmission electron microscopy ( tem ) and the expression of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3-ii ( lc3-ii ) , we determined that op-b treatment induced autophagy in both cell lines .
additionally , insulin-mediated activation of the pi3k/akt/mtor pathway provides evidence that activation of this pathway may correlate with induction of autophagy in h460 cells .
this is the first report of zinc oxide ( zno ) nanoflowers that show significant pro-angiogenic properties ( formation of new capillaries from pre-existing blood vessels ) , observed by in vitro and in vivo angiogenesis assays .
the egg yolk angiogenesis assay using zno nanoflowers indicates the presence of matured blood vessels formation .
formation of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) , especially hydrogen peroxide ( h(2)o(2))-a redox signaling molecule , might be the plausible mechanism for nanoflower-based angiogenesis .
on a mechanistic level , binding of hs to hspgs of ecs as well as glioblastoma cells was found to trigger p38 mapk-dependent signaling resulting in increased proliferation .
we conclude that several hs that recognize hs epitopes abundant in the tumor vasculature may elicit a pro-angiogenic response , which has implications for the development of antibody-based targeting of hspgs in cancer .
wound healing assay and boyden chamber assays indicated that propofol inhibited the migration and invasion of a549 cells in vitro .
taken together , these data show that propofol inhibits mmp-2 and -9 mrna and protein expressions , resulting in suppression of lung cancer cell invasion and migration in vitro .
here we uncover that the kinase perk rapidly promotes autophagy in ecm-detached cells by activating amp-activated protein kinase ( ampk ) , resulting in downstream inhibition of mtorc1-p70(s6k) signaling .
moreover , enforced perk or ampk activation upregulates autophagy and causes luminal filling during acinar morphogenesis by perpetuating a population of surviving autophagic luminal cells that resist anoikis .
hence , we identify a novel pathway in which suspension-activated perk promotes the activation of lkb1 , ampk and tsc2 , leading to the rapid induction of detachment-induced autophagy .
here we show that the dna-repair scaffolding proteins slx4 and rtt107 prevent the aberrant hyperactivation of ddc signalling by lesions that are generated during dna replication in saccharomyces cerevisiae .
our findings show that ddc signalling is monitored and modulated through the direct action of dna-repair factors .
tympcyt expression was correlated with the vegf expression of tumor cells and vegf expression of vessels ( p=0.014 and p=0.022 , respectively ) .
tympst expression was correlated with vegf expression and tenascin ( p=0.014 and p=0.011 , respectively ) .
conclusion these findings suggest that tymp plays an important role in angiogenesis , extracellular matrix remodeling and in the prognosis of patients with crc , but further studies are needed to clearly define its role in crc .
our results showed that olfm4 had no positive effect on cell viability or cell cycle progression in b16f10 cells .
however , it significantly suppressed the tumorigenicity of b16f10 cells , i.e. , intradermal primary tumor growth and lung metastasis .
olfm4 also suppressed the migration and invasion of b16f10 cells in vitro .
moreover , forced expression of mmp9 attenuated the inhibitory activity of olfm4 on migration and invasiveness .
our findings provide the experimental evidence that olfm4 may function as a tumor suppressor and an anti-metastatic gene during tumor progression .
increased vascularization in chorioallantoic membrane assay , increased endothelial sprouting in rat aortic rings , and increased expression of cd31 , e-selectin in endothelial cells suggested a possible proangiogenic effect of citrate .
upregulation of angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor and fibroblast growth factor suggested that the effect of citrate involves modulation of expression of angiogenic growth factors .
rapamycin , an inhibitor of mtor , also reversed the effect of citrate in human umbilical vein endothelial cells and sprouting of aortic rings suggesting that the angiogenic effect of citrate involves activation of pi3k-akt-mtor pathway .
the data also indicate that sequence homology and/or chemical properties to the original epitope are not the sole determining factors for the observed immunostimulatory activity of the mimic peptides .
dmh treatment induced oxidative stress enzymes ( p&lt;0.001 ) and an early inflammatory and tumor promotion response in the colons of wistar rats .
ta treatment prevented deteriorative effects induced by dmh through a protective mechanism that involved reduction of oxidative stress as well as cox-2 , i-nos , pcna protein expression levels and tnf-(p&lt;0.001) release .
it could be concluded from our results that ta markedly protects against chemically induced colon toxicity and acts plausibly by virtue of its antioxidant , anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative activities .
we show that jmjd2a functions as a negative regulator of ras-induced senescence and collaborates with oncogenic ras to promote cellular transformation by negatively regulating the p53 pathway .
depletion of jmjd2a in the human lung cancer cell line a549 bearing an activated k-ras allele triggers senescence .
besides , dhea and epea treatment induced phosphorylation of bcl-2 promoting its dissociation from beclin-1 which resulted in autophagy induction .
we also observed an increase of beclin-1 and microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 expression along with an enhanced autophagosomes formation as revealed by mono-dansyl-cadaverine staining .
finally , we demonstrated the involvement of ppar in dhea- and epea-induced autophagy by using sirna technology and a selective inhibitor .
in summary , our data show that the two omega-3 ethanolamines exert antiproliferative effects by inducing autophagy in breast cancer cells highlighting their potential use as breast cancer preventive and/or therapeutic agents .
we found that primary necrotic cells alone fail to generate cd8(+) t cell-dependent immune responses toward cell-associated antigens .
we show that necrotic cells trigger cd8(+) t-cell immunity only in the presence of pamps or analogs , such as p(di-dc) and/or unmethylated cpg dna .
the electroporation of tumor cells with these pamps prior to necrosis induction triggered antigen-specific cd8(+) t-cell responses through a tlr9/myd88-dependent pathway .
in addition , we found that necrotic cells contain factors that can block the cross-priming of cd8(+) t cells even under non-sterile conditions and can serve as a possible mechanism of immunosuppression .
these results suggest that antigen-specific cd8(+) t-cell responses to primary necrotic tumor cells can be induced in the presence of pamps and thus have a substantial impact on the development of antitumor vaccination strategies .
thirty-four of the 86 patients ( 40% ) harbored egfr mutations .
patients with distant recurrence were more likely to have egfr mutations than patients with local recurrence ( 48% versus 23% ; p = 0.024 ) .
on multivariate analysis , distant recurrence was associated with a high frequency of egfr mutations ( or , 3.3 ; p = 0.028 ) .
survival analysis showed poor survival of patients with mutated egfr ( hr , 2.3 ; p = 0.017 ) or with non-adenocarcinoma histology ( hr , 3.3 ; p = 0.001 ) .
conclusion the association between recurrence pattern and egfr mutation status was suggested in recurrent female nsclc patients .
in addition , our data indicate unfavorable disease process of egfr mutated tumors .
replacement of wild-type pkm2 with a nuclear translocation-deficient mutant ( s37a ) blocks the egfr-promoted warburg effect and brain tumour development in mice .
in addition , levels of pkm2 ser37 phosphorylation correlate with egfr and erk1/2 activity in human glioblastoma specimens .
our findings highlight the importance of nuclear functions of pkm2 in the warburg effect and tumorigenesis .
we report that , similar to the previously reported ' gain of function ' tetrahymena telomerase mutant ( l813y ) , the human telomerase variant displays increased processivity. htert-l866y , like wild-type htert can immortalize and extend the lifespan of limited lifespan cells .
low -h2ax expression was associated with a significantly better survival as compared with those having high -h2ax expression ( 35.3 months for low -h2ax expression versus 23.2 months for high -h2ax expression , p = 0.009 ; hazard ratio [ hr ] 1.95 , 95% ci : 1.15-3.30 ) .
further investigation with multivariate cox proportional hazards regression analysis revealed that high expression of -h2ax remained an independent prognostic factor of shorter overall survival ( hr 2.15 , 95% ci : 1.22-3.79 , p = 0.026 ) .
a combined p53/-h2ax analysis was performed , and we found that the p53 low/-h2ax low phenotype was associated with significantly better survival compared with all other phenotypes .
conclusion our study is the first to demonstrate that expression of -h2ax detected by immunohistochemistry may represent an independent prognostic indicator of overall survival in patients with non-small cell lung cancer .
we report here that eukaryotic elongation factor-2 kinase ( eef2k ) is a critical controller of the er stress-induced autophagy and apoptosis in tumor cells .
we further showed that phosphorylation of eef2k at ser398 was essential for induction of autophagy , while phosphorylation of the kinase at ser366 and ser78 exerted an inhibitory effect on autophagy .
suppression of the er stress-activated autophagy via silencing of eef2k aggravated er stress and promoted apoptotic cell death in tumor cells .
our study indicated that the ddit4-eef2k pathway was essential for inducing autophagy and for determining the fate of tumor cells under er stress , and suggested that inhibiting the eef2k-mediated autophagy can deteriorate er stress and lead to a greater apoptotic response , thereby potentiating the efficacy of the er stress-inducing agents against cancer .
treatment of ftc-236 cells with 5'-aza-cdr or zebularine induced reexpression of the thrb gene and inhibited cell proliferation and migration .
hypoxia induced an upregulation of cxcr2 and cxcr4 but not cd74 on epcs and triggered the secretion of cxcl12 , cxcl1 , mif , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) .
these factors stimulated the transmigration activity and adhesive capacity of epcs , with mif and vegf exhibiting the strongest effects under hypoxia .
mif- , vegf- , cxcl12- , and cxcl1-stimulated epcs enhanced tube formation , with mif and vegf exhibiting again the strongest effect following hypoxia .
tube formation following in vivo implantation utilizing angiogenic factor-loaded matrigel plugs was only promoted by vegf .
coloading of plugs with eepcs led to enhanced tube formation only by cxcl12 , whereas mif was the only factor which induced differentiation towards an endothelial and smooth muscle cell ( smc ) phenotype , indicating an angiogenic and differentiation capacity in vivo .
we have identified a role for epc-derived proangiogenic mif , vegf and mif receptors in epc recruitment following hypoxia , epc differentiation and subsequent tube and vessel formation , whereas cxcl12 , a mediator of early epc recruitment , does not contribute to the remodeling process .
by discerning the contributions of key angiogenic chemokines and epcs , these findings offer valuable mechanistic insight into mouse models of angiogenesis and help to define the intricate interplay between epc-derived angiogenic cargo factors , epcs , and the angiogenic target tissue .
we observed that even though cell cycle status and antioxidant content may contribute to differential radiosensitivity , differential dna repair capacity may be a greater determinant of radiosensitivity .
unlike non-stem cells , csc-like cells have little/no sublethal damage repair , a low intracellular level of ataxia telangiectasia mutated ( atm ) and delay of -h2ax foci removal ( dna strand break repair ) .
these results suggest that low dna repair capacity is responsible for the high radiosensitivity of these csc-like cells .
the treatment of l-tacb-bearing rats with a single low-dose cyclophosphamide decreased il-10 production , reverted immunosuppression and induced the immunologic rejection of tumor metastasis without any effect on primary tumor growth .
mafosfamide induced down-regulation of il-10 production and il-10r expression on metastatic cells and , concomitantly , inhibited metastatic cell proliferation .
we suggest that mafosfamide would inhibit the regulatory loop mediated by the il-10/il-10r system and , as a consequence , metastatic cell proliferation .
these results may have a considerable impact on the design of new therapies for metastatic lymphomas .
here we show that geroconversion is accompanied by dramatic accumulation of cyclin d1 followed by cyclin e and replicative stress .
when p21 was switched off , senescent cells ( despite their loss of proliferative potential ) progressed through s phase , and levels of cyclins d1 and e dropped .
both nutlin-3 , which inhibits mtor in these cells , and rapamycin suppressed geroconversion during p21-induced arrest , decelerated accumulation of cyclins d1 and e and decreased replicative stress .
when p21 was switched off , cells successfully progressed through both s phase and mitosis .
also , senescent mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( mefs ) overexpressed cyclin d1 .
after release from cell cycle arrest , senescent mefs entered s phase but could not undergo mitosis and did not proliferate .
we conclude that cellular senescence is characterized by futile hyper-mitogenic drive associated with mtor-dependent mitotic incompetence .
the growth inhibition was accompanied with a sustained reduction of both total and phosphorylated kit proteins and the induction of apoptosis in both cell lines .
surprisingly , auy922-induced kit reduction could be partially reversed by pharmacological inhibition of either autophagy or proteasome degradation pathway .
the blockade of autophagy alone led to the accumulation of the kit protein , highlighting the role of autophagy in endogenous kit turnover .
the involvement of autophagy in endogenous and auy922-induced kit protein turnover was further confirmed by the colocalization of kit with map1lc3b- , acridine orange- or sqstm1-labeled autophagosome , and by the accumulation of kit in gist cells by silencing either becn1 or atg5 to disrupt autophagosome activity .
therefore , the results not only highlight the potential application of auy922 for the treatment of kit-expressing gists , but also provide the first evidence for the involvement of autophagy in endogenous and hsp90aa1 inhibitor-induced kit degradation .
immunofluorescence analysis of aqp1 sirna treated tumours showed a significantly lower microvessel density .
finally , we have confirmed the role of aqp1 in sustaining an active endothelium during angiogenesis and we have shown that aqp1 reduction causes an increase in vegf levels .
in conclusion , this study validates aqp1 as a pro-angiogenic protein , relevant for the therapy of cancer and other angiogenic-related diseases such as psoriasis , endometriosis , arthritis and atherosclerosis .
our results demonstrate that the rate limiting step is michael addition between bpaq and da , the main product being the unstable n7-modified adduct that rapidly undergoes depurination .
comparison with the activation energy of 23.1 kcal/mol for the corresponding deoxyguanosine reaction indicates that most of the dna damage by bpaq will occur at the guanine site .
results skx cells exhibited a pronounced radiosensitivity associated with numerous residual -h2ax foci after ir .
this was not associated with lacking canonical repair proteins .
sequencing of all 66 exons of atm showed no mutation .
cells over-expressing akt1 were more resistant than control cells to ultraviolet light-induced autophagy and exhibited the associated reduction in cell viability .
altogether , these data suggest that akt1 may inhibit autophagy by decreasing uvrag expression , which also sensitizes cancer cells to uv irradiation .
here we report a c.464t&gt;a mutation of the vhl gene in three patients with hemangioblastoma from a chinese family .
our finding of naturally occurring vhl v155e mutation in patients with vhl syndrome supports the functional importance of val-155 residue in vhl protein and illustrates the diversity of vhl gene defects underlying vhl syndrome .
epinephrine , norepinephrine and isoproterenol increased the cellular proliferation of the rat os cell line cos1nr and rat mscs in a dose-dependent and 2ar antagonist-sensitive manner .
here , we show in normal , transformed , and cancer-derived cell lines that fhit-depletion causes replication stress-induced dna double-strand breaks .
depletion of fhit did not activate the dna damage response nor cause cell cycle arrest , allowing continued cell proliferation and ongoing chromosomal instability .
this finding was in accord with in vivo studies , as fhit knockout mouse tissue showed no evidence of cell cycle arrest or senescence yet exhibited numerous somatic dna copy number aberrations at replication stress-sensitive loci .
we propose that loss of fhit expression in precancerous lesions is the first step in the initiation of genomic instability , linking alterations at common fragile sites to the origin of genome instability .
we also found that overexpression of mir-490-3p led to an increase in cell proliferation , migration , and invasion abilities and that it contributed to emt .
these findings suggest that ipla(2) promotes -cell proliferation and that its expression is increased during inflammation or oxidative stress as a mechanism to mitigate membrane injury that may enhance -cell survival .
functionally , overexpressed rap-1a could promote oral cancer cell migration and invasion by transwell chambers and wound healing assay .
taken together , our results suggest that the aurora-a/rap-1a pathway is associated with survival , tumor progression , and metastasis of ocscc patients .
at 8 and 16 week interim terminations , ( 32)p-nucleotide postlabeling assay revealed 3 adducts in livers of all meg groups .
the hepatocellular replicating fractions , measured by proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunohistochemistry , were doubled or more in all meg groups .
thus , meg had rapid initiating activity , reflecting the formation of dna adducts and possibly cell proliferation .
results indicate that radiation-mediated constitutive rearrangement of the chromosome complement has led to a substantial modulation of the sensitivity of barley genome towards dna strand breaks , produced by ionising radiation , li ion implantation and bleomycin in an agent-specific manner , as well as of the clastogenic response to -rays .
based on these findings , reconstructed barley karyotype d-2946 can be considered a candidate radio-sensitive line with reduced ability to maintain genome integrity with respect to both dna and chromosomal damage .
in this study , we demonstrate that targeting tumor-infiltrating macrophages and inflammatory monocytes by inhibiting either the myeloid cell receptors csf1r or ccr2 decreases the number of tumor-initiating cells in pancreatic tumors .
targeting ccr2 or csf1r improves chemotherapeutic efficacy , inhibits metastasis and increases antitumor t-cell responses .
tumor-educated macrophages also directly enhanced the tumor-initiating capacity of pancreatic tumor cells by activating the transcription factor stat3 , thereby facilitating macrophage-mediated suppression of cd8+ t lymphocytes .
in addition , they exhibited increased inflammation with redistribution toward protumorigenic m2 macrophage subsets , increased proliferation , hyperactive wnt signaling , and increased dna damage .
to determine the impact of acute gene loss in an established colon cancer line , we silenced gpx3 in human caco2 cells , resulting in increased ros production , dna damage and apoptosis in response to oxidative stress , combined with decreased contact-independent growth .
on the contrary , low-dose cp enhanced the production of chronic inflammatory mediators in melanoma lesions associated with increased accumulation of gr1(+)cd11b(+) myeloid-derived suppressor cells ( mdscs ) , which exhibit elevated suppressive activity and nitric oxide ( no ) production as well as inhibition of t-cell proliferation .
similar to tumor-bearing mice , cp-treated inflamed mice displayed elevated levels of mdscs with enhanced production of no , reactive oxygen species , and a suppressed in vivo natural killer ( nk ) cell cytotoxic activity indicating cp effects on the host immune system independent of the tumor .
idh1-r132h mutations were detected in 22 ( 39.3% ) of 56 cases and mgmt promoter methylation in 33 ( 61.1% ) of 54 cases with available tissue samples .
in patients with wild-type idh , median ttp was 8.2 months and median os was 24 months , compared with 18 months and 44 months , respectively , observed in patients with mutated idh .
conclusions we found a high frequency of idh1 mutations and mgmt promoter methylation among young adult patients with primary gbm that may contribute to the generally favorable outcome associated with young age .
both b(1) des-arg(9)-bk and b(2) bk receptor agonists stimulated the proliferation of grade 3-derived t24 bladder cancer cells .
furthermore , treatment with b(1) and b(2) receptor antagonists ( ssr240612 and hoe140 ) markedly inhibited the proliferation of t24 cells .
real-time pcr revealed that the mrna expression of kinin receptors , particularly b(1) receptors , was increased in t24 cells relative to rt4 cells .
data from bladder cancer human biopsies revealed that b(1) receptor expression was increased in all tumor samples and under conditions of chronic inflammation .
finally , the incubation of t24 cells with kinin agonists led to a marked activation of the pi3k/akt and erk 1/2 signaling pathways , whereas p38 map kinase remained unaffected .
kinin receptors , especially b(1) receptors , appear to be implicated in bladder cancer progression .
imp3 is consistently up-regulated in tumors formed by ax cells , and its expression in these cells was found to confer malignant properties such as anchorage-independent growth , loss of contact inhibition , and escape from anoikis in vitro .
in this study , we showed that oxaliplatin induced cell death and autophagy in caco-2 colorectal cancer cells .
the suppression of autophagy using either pharmacologic inhibitors ( 3-methyladenine , bafilomycin a1 ) or rna interference in essential autophagy genes ( atg5 or beclin1 ) enhanced the cell death and reactive oxygen species ( ros ) production induced by oxaliplatin in caco-2 cells .
blocking oxaliplatin-induced ros production by using ros scavengers ( nac or tiron ) decreased autophagy .
furthermore , numerous dilated endoplasmic reticula ( er ) were present in oxaliplatin-treated caco-2 cells , and blocking er stress by rna interference against candidate of metastasis-1 ( p8 ) and c/ebp-homologous protein ( chop ) decreased autophagy and ros production .
taken together , these data indicate that oxaliplatin activates autophagy as a cytoprotective response via er stress and ros in human colorectal cancer cells .
pre-treatment pbls from patients with mrcc exhibit a gene expression profile and serum cytokine profile consistent with inflammation and proliferation not found in healthy donors ( hd ) .
while exploratory in nature , this study supports the hypothesis that enhanced inflammatory cytotoxic pathways coupled with blunting of the regulatory pathways is necessary for effective anti-cancer activity associated with immune therapy .
this type of analysis can potentially identify additional immune therapeutic targets in patients with mrcc .
mice in the control group exhibited extensive metastasis in the peritoneal cavity and severely enlarged right testes and necrotic seminiferous tubules .
by contrast , in the nm 1% fed group there was no evidence of peritoneal metastasis in 50% of the animals and mild metastasis in the remaining 50% .
the right testes were enlarged and seminiferous tubules in the area of invasion showed evidence of degeneration .
no metastasis to the liver , kidney or spleen were evident in either group .
however , severe lung metastasis was observed in 2 of 6 mice in the control group and mild metastasis in 2 of 6 mice in the nm 1% group .
in conclusion , these results confirm earlier studies and verify the anti-metastatic potential of nm .
this group displayed upregulation of proteins involved in migration , adhesion , angiogenesis , cell cycle regulation , anti-apoptosis and epithelial to mesenchymal transition , whereas the " less-aggressive " group was engaged in keratinocyte differentiation , epidermis development , inflammation and immune response .
besides the identification of several proteins not yet described as deregulated in oral carcinomas , the present study demonstrated for the first time the role of cofilin-1 in modulating cell invasion in oral carcinomas .
here , we show that poly ( adp-ribose ) polymerase ( parp ) and cockayne syndrome group b protein ( csb ) modulate the cpt-induced formation of discrete p53-binding protein 1 ( 53bp1 ) nuclear foci at sites of transcription-mediated dna strand breaks .
inhibition of parp activity enhanced the formation of these foci , while knockdown of essential components of the base excision repair ( ber ) pathway did not .
these findings suggest that parp suppresses transcription-mediated 53bp1 foci formation , but that this does not occur through the ber pathway .
these data suggest that parp and csb modulate the formation of 53bp1 foci during the processing of transcription-mediated dna strand breaks .
ectopic overexpression of mir-18a in hct116 cell lines potently enhanced autophagy and ionizing radiation-induced autophagy .
results of the present study pertaining to the role of mir-18a in regulating autophagy and atm gene expression in colon cancer cells revealed a novel function for mir-18a in a critical cellular event and on a crucial gene with significant impacts in cancer development , progression , treatment and in other diseases .
glyceollins inhibited vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) or basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) induced in vitro angiogenic activity .
glyceollins inhibited vegf receptor-2 or fgf receptor-1 activity and their downstream signaling pathways such as extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 , c-jun n-terminal kinase , as well as p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase and focal adhesion kinase induced by vegf or bfgf .
glyceollins significantly suppressed vegf receptor-2 kinase activity assayed by the elisa .
glyceollins significantly attenuated in vivo and ex vivo microvessel development in a dose-dependent manner and tumor growth by suppressing microvessel density in lewis lung carcinoma ( llc ) mouse xenograft .
conclusion thus , glyceollins , elicited ingredients of soy source , target the signaling pathways mediated by vegf or bfgf , providing new perspectives into potential therapeutics for preventing and treating hypervascularized diseases including cancer .
they also showed anchorage-independent growth and continued cell cycles and cell growth , bypassing cell-cell contact inhibition similar to tumor cells .
in conclusion , n-terminally truncated lats1 induced lats2 downregulation and yap protein accumulation , leading to chromosomal instability and tumorigenesis .
our results showed that the growth of subintestinal vessels of the bigelovin-treated zebrafish embryos was significantly inhibited and the gene expressions in angiogenesis signaling pathways ( e.g .
ang2 and tie2 ) of the zebrafish were down-regulated after bigelovin treatment .
on the other hand , bigelovin was shown to significantly inhibit the human monocyte adhesion to human endothelial cells and the gene expressions of inflammation-related cams ( e.g .
icam-1 , vcam-1 and e-selectin ) were significantly down-regulated in bigelovin-treated human endothelial cells .
in summary , our data provide the first evidence that bigelovin possesses anti-angiogenic and immunomodulatory activities , suggesting bigelovin may exert multi-target functions against cancer in animal models .
ginseng treatment decreased blood vessel density and mmp activity in adipose tissues .
ginseng also reduced mrna levels of angiogenic factors ( e.g. , vegf-a and fgf-2 ) and mmps ( e.g. , mmp-2 and mmp-9 ) , whereas it increased mrna levels of angiogenic inhibitors ( e.g. , tsp-1 , timp-1 , and timp-2 ) in adipose tissues .
these results demonstrate that ginseng effectively reduces adipose tissue mass and prevents obesity in diet-induced obese mice and that this process may be mediated in part through the anti-angiogenic actions of ginseng .
in contrast , mterbb2 enhanced cellular glycolysis .
our study provides a novel perspective on the metabolic regulatory function of erbb2 and reveals that mterbb2 has an important role in the regulation of cellular metabolism and cancer cell resistance to therapeutics .
at confluence , spry2 expression correlates with intact cell-cell contacts , whereas disruption of cell-cell contacts by egta , tnf and thrombin decreases spry2 protein expression .
this study thus reveals a novel spry2 function , which mediates endothelial contact inhibition and barrier integrity .
our results provide an insight into mechanisms of immunosuppression in pdac , suggesting an important role for proliferative expansion of effector/memory treg .
by multivariate analysis , serosal invasion of the primary gastric cancer and larger hepatic tumor(&gt;5 cm in diameter)were found to be independent indicators of poor prognosis .
glm patients having hepatic tumors with the maximum diameter of &lt;5 cm , and without serosalinvasion of the primary gastric cancer , are the best candidates for hepatectomy .
methodology/principal findings treatment with roscovitine prior to irradiation induced a significant increase in the percentage of cells in the g(2)/m phase , as demonstrated by flow cytometry .
in contrast , mice treated with radiation exhibit no differences in the percentage of cells in g(2)/m when compared to unirradiated controls .
similar to previous studies utilizing igf-1 , pretreatment with roscovitine leads to a significant up-regulation of p21 expression and a significant decrease in the number of pcna positive cells .
conclusions/significance these studies suggest that induction of transient g(2)/m cell cycle arrest by roscovitine allows for suppression of apoptosis , thus preserving normal salivary function following targeted head and neck irradiation .
here , we show that two of these compounds , cp-31398 and rita , induce cell growth inhibition , apoptosis , and autophagy by activating p53/dna binding and p53 phosphorylation ( ser15 ) , without affecting the total p53 amount .
furthermore , cp-31398 and rita regulate the axis sesn1-2/ampk/mtor by inducing ampk phosphorylation on thr172 , which has a crucial role in the autophagic response .
the protective role of autophagy in cell growth inhibition by cp-31398 and rita is supported by the finding that the ampk inhibitor compound c or the autophagy inhibitors chloroquine or 3-methyladenine sensitize both pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell lines to the apoptotic response induced by p53-reactivating molecules .
our results demonstrate for the first time a survival role for autophagy induced by p53-reactivating molecules , supporting the development of an anti-cancer therapy based on autophagy inhibition associated to p53 activation .
results showed that down-regulation of heparanase led to significant inhibition of invasive and proliferative potentials of a549 cells in vitro and in vivo .
further research demonstrated that down-regulation of heparanase significantly inhibited the angiogenic potential of a549 cells , which might be the mechanism responsible for the inhibition of a549 cell proliferation in balb/c nude mice in vivo .
these findings demonstrate that heparanase plays essential roles in regulating the invasion , proliferation , and angiogenesis of a549 cells .
indeed , ablation of the rort gene in foxp3(+) cells in polyp-prone mice stabilized t(reg) anti-inflammatory functions , suppressed inflammation , improved polyp-specific immune surveillance , and severely attenuated polyposis .
thus , we conclude that rort has a central role in determining the balance between protective and pathogenic t(regs) in cc and that t(reg) subtype regulates inflammation , potency of immune surveillance , and severity of disease outcome .
cis-guggulsterone was more potent than trans-guggulsterone in the inhibition of tpa-induced mmp-9 expression and invasion of mcf-7 cells .
furthermore , we found that the combination of these isomers exerted an additive effect on the inhibition of mcf-7 cell invasion .
these results suggest that guggulsterone isomers downregulate mmp-9 expression and tumor cell invasion through the isomer-specific suppression of ikk/nf-b and mapk/ap-1 activation .
in addition , the suppression of mmp-9 expression correlated well with the inhibition of cell invasion .
here , we provided evidence that the influx of extracellular ca(2+) triggered by trichokonin vi ( tk vi ) , an antimicrobial peptide , induced calpain-dependent apoptosis and autophagy in hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) cells .
remarkably , tk vi preferentially induced apoptosis that was associated with calpain-mediated bax and atg5 cleavage , which resulted in the collapse of the mitochondrial membrane potential and cytochrome c release .
moreover , tk vi treatment induced reactive oxygen species ( ros ) accumulation , an effect in which bak might play a major role .
this accumulation of ros resulted in the subsequent disposal of damaged mitochondria within autophagosomes via atg5-mediated and mitochondria-selective autophagy .
both the inhibition of calpain activity and bax deficiency activated a switch that promoted an enhancement of autophagy .
the inhibition of both apoptosis and autophagy significantly attenuated the tk vi cytotoxicity , indicating that the two processes had stimulatory effects during tk vi-meditated cell death .
these results suggested that calpain , bak and atg5 were molecular links between autophagy and apoptosis and revealed novel aspects of the crosstalk between these two processes .
here we describe that igf1 signals were more clearly detectable in anchorage-independent conditions ( polyhema-coated plates ) than in anchorage-dependent conditions .
these results suggest that v3-igf1 interaction , not v3-extracellular matrix interaction , is essential for igf signaling .
also , mutations of the 3 cytoplasmic tail ( y747f and y759f ) that block 3 tyrosine phosphorylation did not affect igf1r phosphorylation or akt activation .
it is likely that v3 should be together with the igf1-igf1r complex for triggering igf signaling .
additionally , arf(-/-) peritoneal macrophages showed an impaired response to lipopolysaccharide ( a classical inducer of m1 polaryzation ) and a reduced production of pro-inflammatory cytokines/chemokines .
in addition , multiple pro-angiogenic factors such as vegf and mmp-9 were also increased .
( 2 ) the ionizing radiation ( ir)- induced apoptosis and autophagy were significant in both cells ( p&lt;0.05 ) ; inhibition of apoptosis with zvad showed no impact on survival of skov3 and skvcr cells after radiation , while inhibition of autophagy significantly decreased viability in skvcr cells , for skvo3 cells only low level of radiation ( 2 gy and 4 gy ) could decrease the viability(p&lt;0.05) .
( 3 ) zvad inhibited apoptosis and autophagy in both cells , 3ma inhibit apoptosis in skov3 , and promote apoptosis in skvcr , together with inhibition of autophagy .
( 4 ) g2/m arrest was induced by radiation in both cells ; the accumulation of g2/m was more significant in skov3 , 3ma attenuated the radiation-induced s phase delay in skvcr .
conclusion : ir-induced autophagy provides a self-protective mechanism against radiotherapy in skvcr cells , the use of autophagy inhibitor , 3ma , increases the killing effects of radiation by inhibiting autophagy and radiation- induced s phase delay , also by the increase of apoptosis , which suggests a better therapeutic strategy in drug- resistant skvcr ovarian cancer cells .
here , we report that down-regulation of deoxyribonucleoside pools is another endogenous source of dna damage in normal human fibroblasts ( nhfs ) undergoing hras(g12v)-induced senescence .
importantly , ectopic coexpression of ts and rr or addition of deoxyribonucleosides substantially suppressed dna damage , senescence-associated phenotypes , and proliferation arrest in two types of nhf-expressing hras(g12v) .
reciprocally , short hairpin rna-mediated suppression of ts and rr caused dna damage and senescence in nhfs , although less efficiently than hras(g12v) .
fish exposed through either route displayed a significant increase in dna strand breaks after 4 days of exposure , and significant correlations were observed between the level of biliary pah metabolites and the level of dna lesions in fish erythrocytes .
overall results indicate that exposure to either a mixture of dissolved pahs , a pah-contaminated sediment or a dispersed oil fuel elutriate leads to biotransformation and increase in dna damage in fish .
the quantification of pah metabolites in bile and dna damage in erythrocytes appear to be suitable for environmental monitoring of marine pollution either in the case of accidental oil spills or sediment contamination .
we report results of a clinical study that show that in patients without cancer but with a history of premalignant lesions ( advanced colonic adenomas , precursors to colon cancer ) , a vaccine based on the taa muc1 was highly immunogenic in 17 of 39 ( 43.6% ) of vaccinated individuals , eliciting high levels of anti-muc1 immunoglobulin g ( igg ) and long-lasting immune memory .
vaccine-elicited muc1-specific immune response and immune memory were not associated with significant toxicity .
our study shows that vaccines based on human taas are immunogenic and safe and capable of eliciting long-term memory that is important for cancer prevention .
we also show that in the premalignant setting , immunosuppressive environment ( e.g. , high levels of mdsc ) might already exist in some individuals , suggesting an even earlier premalignant stage or preselection of nonimmunosuppressed patients for prophylactic vaccination .
in this study , we initially found that il-6 , one of the cachectic factors , suppressed cd4(+) t cell-mediated immunity through downregulation of mhc class ii by enhanced arginase activity of dendritic cells ( dc ) in tumor-bearing mice .
thus , il-6-mediated arginase activation and the subsequent reduction in mhc class ii expression on dc appeared to be critical mechanisms for inducing dysfunction of the immune system in the tumor-bearing state .
blockade of the il-6-arginase cascade is a promising tool to overcome the dysfunction of antitumor immunity in tumor-bearing hosts .
decreased aspp2 levels attenuated h-rasv12-induced senescence in normal human fibroblasts and neonatal human epidermal keratinocytes .
together , our results reveal a mechanism for aspp2 tumor suppressor function via direct interaction with ras-gtp to stimulate ras-induced senescence in nontransformed human cells .
cxcr4 expression was not correlated with occurrence of metastatic disease .
also , therapy-naive tumors demonstrated higher cxcr4 expression as compared to metastases ( p = 0.027 ) .
in the current study , we demonstrate that myc-depleted melanoma cells undergo extensive dna damage that is caused by the underexpression of thymidylate synthase ( ts ) and ribonucleotide reductase ( rr ) and subsequent depletion of deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate pools .
simultaneous genetic inhibition of ts and rr in melanoma cells induced dna damage and senescence phenotypes very similar to the ones caused by myc-depletion .
reciprocally , overexpression of ts and rr in melanoma cells or addition of deoxyribo-nucleosides to culture media substantially inhibited dna damage and senescence-associated phenotypes caused by c-myc depletion .
our data demonstrate the essential role of ts and rr in c-myc-dependent suppression of senescence in melanoma cells .
in this study , we have determined that androgens regulate overall cell metabolism and cell growth , in part , by increasing autophagy in prostate cancer cells .
further , autophagy and subsequent cell growth is potentiated , in part , by androgen-mediated increases in reactive oxygen species .
these findings demonstrate a role for increased fat metabolism and autophagy in prostatic neoplasias and highlight the potential of targeting underexplored metabolic pathways for the development of novel therapeutics .
using h2ax staining as a marker of double strand break formation , we found that ec cell lines were either incapable of or had a reduced ability to repair icl-induced damage .
the defect correlated with reduced homologous recombination ( hr ) repair , as demonstrated by the reduction of rad51 foci formation and by direct evaluation of hr efficiency using a gfp-reporter substrate .
we also found that y-142 inhibited hb-egf-induced cancer cell proliferation , endothelial cell proliferation , tube formation , and vegf production more effectively than cetuximab and crm197 and that y-142 was superior to bevacizumab in the inhibition of hb-egf-induced tube formation .
y-142 has a potent hb-egf neutralizing activity that modulates multiple biological activities of hb-egf including cancer cell proliferation and angiogenic activities .
both ce and e(2) alone increased dna synthesis and reduced apoptosis with activation of mapk , akt , and p70s6k and up-regulation of antiapoptotic factors survivin , bcl-2 , and x-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein , these effects could be completely blocked by bza .
the sirna-mediated pak4 knockdown elevated anoikis , and inhibited invasion and migration by downregulating mmp-2 , v3-integrin and phospho-epidermal growth factor receptor ( phospho-egfr ) .
overexpression of pak4 significantly reversed the mmp2si-induced cell death in both cell lines .
codepletion of pak4 and mmp-2 resulted in robust anoikis-mediated cell death , and severely inhibited invasive and migratory properties in these cells .
results show that 50% cdk2 deficiency can cause senescence in all healthy cells in a fairly uniform cell population ; whereas , most healthy cells ( 67% ) in a heterogeneous population escape senescence .
under both low- and high-dna damaged conditions , 50% cdk deficiency can cause 65% increase in senescence in a heterogeneous cell population .
furthermore , the model analyses the relationship between cdk2 and its ckis ( p21 , p27 ) to help search for other effective ways to bring forward cellular senescence .
results show that the degradation rate of p21 and initial concentration of p27 are effective in lowering cdk2 levels to lower the senescence threshold .
herein , we show that depletion of aurora a kinase by rna interference ( rnai ) in hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) cells upregulated foxo1 in a p53-dependent manner , which induces cell cycle arrest .
in addition , silencing of foxo1 in aurora a-knockdown cells allowed the cells to exit cytostatic arrest , which , in turn , led to massive cell death .
our results suggest that foxo1 is responsible for growth arrest at the g 2/m phase that is induced by aurora a kinase inhibition .
in the nuli-1 immortalized human lung epithelial cell line with p53 and prb deficiency , exposure to low doses of arsenic trioxide for 72h promoted cell proliferation and upregulated the gene transcription levels of foxm1 , cdc6 , cdc25a , and cyclin d1 , which are both critical cell cycle regulatory genes and proto-oncogenes .
capsaicin induced g0/g1 phase cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in panc-1 cells as demonstrated by a flow cytometric assessment .
an increased number of tunel-positive cells and cleaved caspase-3 were observed in capsaicin-treated mice .
in conclusion , we have demonstrated that capsaicin is an inhibitor of growth of panc-1 cells , and downregulation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/akt pathway may be involved in capsaicin-induced apoptosis in vitro and in vivo .
sorafenib arrested the cell cycle at the g1 phase , whereas gemcitabine arrested the cell cycle at the s phase .
eear significantly induced g2/m cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in hct-116 cells .
eear-induced apoptosis was observed in parallel with activation of caspases and an increased ratio of bax ( pro-apoptotic)/bcl2 ( anti-apoptotic ) .
eear-induced apoptosis in hct-116 cells was dependent on p53 expression , as determined by sirna-mediated p53 knockdown .
taken together , these results suggest that eear inhibits the growth of the hct-116 cells through induction of g2/m cell cycle arrest and apoptosis , which are mediated by p53 expression .
in addition , a matrigel invasion assay determined that piceatannol reduces the tnf--induced invasion of du145 cells .
overall , these data suggest that piceatannol inhibits tnf--induced invasion by suppression of mmp-9 activation via the akt-mediated nf-b pathway in du145 prostate cancer cells .
using the lung carcinoma cell lines a549 and nci-h1975 , the results suggested that gefitinib might mediate cell cycle arrest in lung cancer cells at least by targeting tob1 expression .
gefitinib treatment caused cell cycle arrest predominantly at the g1 phase , which is associated with tob1 nuclear translocation and its interaction with cyclin d1 .
these results suggest that tob1 interaction with cyclin d1 and nuclear translocation is directly involved in the gefitinib-induced anti-proliferative cell cycle arrest .
a1 caused significant cell cycle arrest in all phases according to the cell line , and increased the proportion of cells in the sub g0/g1 phase .
cells treated with a1 at ic(50) demonstrated the morphological characteristic of apoptosis , such as chromatin condensation and formation of apoptotic bodies .
apoptosis was confirmed by externalization of phosphatidylserine , which was detected by the annexin v-fitc method , and by dna fragmentation .
our results directly show that all three ucp family members ( ucp-1/2/3 ) induce autophagy and mitochondrial dysfunction in human breast cancer cells , which results in significant reductions in tumor growth .
dca reduced lactate production and increased ros and atp , indicating activation of oxidative phosphorylation ( oxphos ) .
dca markedly sensitised sorafenib-resistant hcc cells to sorafenib-induced apoptosis ( sub-g1 ( combination vs sorafenib ) : hep3b , 65.48.4% vs 132.9% ; huh-7r , 25.3 5.7% vs 4.31.5% ; each p&lt;0.0001 ) , whereas sirna of hk2 did not .
in this study , we provide the first evidence that the repair of a dna base lesion can also contribute to cag repeat deletions that were initiated by the formation of hairpins on both the template and the damaged strand of a continuous run of ( cag)(20 ) or ( cag)(25 ) repeats .
our results provide new insight into the role of ber in modulating genome stability that is associated with human diseases .
results : we show that azd5363 affected akt downstream pathway by reducing p-mtor , p-p70s6k and p-s6k .
while azd5363 monotherapy induced g2 growth arrest and autophagy , it failed to induce significant apoptosis in pc-3 and du145 pca cells .
blocking autophagy using pharmacological inhibitors or genetic inhibitors enhanced cell death induced by azd5363 in these pca cells .
conclusions : these data demonstrate that akt inhibitor azd5363 , synergizes with the lysosomotropic inhibitor of autophagy , chloroquine , to induce apoptosis and delay tumor progression in pca models that are resistant to monotherapy azd5363 , providing a new therapeutic approach potentially translatable to patients .
fibroblasts induced into quiescence by contact inhibition or serum starvation had similar microrna profiles , indicating common changes induced by distinct quiescence signals .
in addition , overexpression of mir-29 resulted in more rapid cell cycle re-entry from quiescence .
overexpression of either one alone resulted in slower cell cycle re-entry from quiescence , while the combination of both together slowed cell cycle re-entry even further .
our findings demonstrate that normal and tumor prostate cell lines express mmp2 activity when in contact with extracellular matrix components or blood plasma proteins such as fibronectin .
the reduction of bifc signal mediated by nutlin-3 was correlated with an increase in puma transactivation , parp cleavage , and cell death .
this effect is mediated through the induction of apoptosis via the mitochondrial pathway .
moreover , oleuropein inhibits cell proliferation by delaying the cell cycle at s phase and up-regulated the cyclin-dependent inhibitor p21 .
furthermore , oleuropein inhibited the anti-apoptosis and pro-proliferation protein nf-b and its main oncogenic target cyclin d1 .
however , psc 833 produced a dose-dependent decrease in dna synthesis and dose- and time-dependent decreases in rb phosphorylation , consistent with cell cycle arrest as demonstrated at g1 .
cytotoxicity was accompanied by formation of acridine orange-stained acidic vesicles and an increase in lc3 expression , indicative of autophagic response .
this work provides evidence that epirubicin acts to form drug-dna adducts at physiologically relevant concentrations and demonstrates that the rate of formation of epirubicin-dna adducts is slower than that observed for other anthracycline compounds , explaining why they are only detectable under defined experimental conditions .
formation of covalent epirubicin-dna adducts improves the apoptotic profile of epirubicin and provides opportunities to overcome drug resistance and cardiotoxic limitations .
we report that partitioning defective protein 3 ( par3 ) is dysregulated in metastasis in human breast cancer , and is associated with a higher tumour grade and erbb2-positive status .
downregulation of par3 cooperated with erbb2 to induce cell invasion and metastasis in vivo .
interestingly , the metastatic behaviour was not associated with an overt mesenchymal phenotype .
inhibition of this pathway restored e-cadherin junction stability and blocked invasive behaviour of cells lacking par3 , suggesting that loss of par3 promotes metastatic behaviour of erbb2-induced tumour epithelial cells by decreasing cell-cell cohesion .
subsequent restoration of cd81 expression induced a g(1) cell cycle arrest and apoptosis , whereas sirna-mediated cd81 down-regulation promoted cell proliferation and attenuated cellular responses to various apoptotic stress stimuli .
we found that pterostilbene at the ic90 concentration of 44 m inhibited proliferation and induced apoptosis in molt4 human leukemia cells .
treatment with pterostilbene resulted in a transient accumulation of cells in the g0/g1-cell cycle phase followed by the s-phase arrest .
pterostilbene-induced apoptotic death of molt4 cells was mediated by caspase-3 activation and was accompanied by the disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential , phosphatidylserine externalization and internucleosomal dna fragmentation .
in addition , treatment with pi3k inhibitors 3-ma or wortmannin , as well as knockdown of beclin 1 expression , was unable to affect autophagic responses mediated by proteasome inhibitors .
beclin 1 possesses autophagy-independent antitumoral effects upon exposure of thyroid cancer cells to proteasome inhibitors .
while cbd did not affect the efficiency with which kshv infected ecs , it reduced proliferation and induced apoptosis in those infected by the virus .
cbd inhibited the expression of kshv viral g protein-coupled receptor ( vgpcr ) , its agonist , the chemokine growth-regulated protein  ( gro- ) , vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 ( vegfr-3 ) , and the vegfr-3 ligand , vascular endothelial growth factor c ( vegf-c ) .
depletion of plk1 delayed mitotic entry and recovery from the dna damage-induced g2 arrest and over-expression of mpf attenuated the dna damage-induced g2 delay .
the model recapitulates the g2 delay observed in the biological response to varying levels of a dna damage signal .
the model produced the novel prediction that depletion of pkmyt1 results in an abnormal biological state in which g2 cells with dna damage accumulate inactive nuclear mpf .
such a detailed model may prove useful for predicting dna damage g2 checkpoint function in cancer and , therefore , sensitivity to cancer therapy .
rather , combined treatment with subeffective doses of -tocotrienol and sesamin was found to induce g1 cell cycle arrest , and a corresponding decrease in cyclin d1 , cdk2 , cdk4 , cdk6 , phospho-rb , and e2f1 levels , and increase in p27 and p16 levels .
additional studies showed that the antiproliferative effect of combination treatment did not initiate apoptosis or result in a decrease in mammary cancer cell viability .
taken together , these findings indicate that the synergistic antiproliferative action of combined -tocotrienol and sesamin treatment in mouse and human mammary cancer cells is cytostatic , not cytotoxic , and results from g1 cell cycle arrest .
the obtained effect was coupled with lessened skin ( semi-allogenic ) and decreased liver inflammation ( both models ) as well as reduced colon ulceration ( allogenic ) .
overall our data demonstrates that pif protects against semi/allogenic gvhd long-term by reducing both target organ and systemic inflammation and by lowering oxidative stress , all while preserving the beneficial gvl effect .
there was no difference in serum levels of igf-1 in mm patients and in controls , contrary to angiogenic factors , which were higher in mm patients ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
similarly , igf-1 did not correlate with clinical stage of the disease nor the other angiogenic factors , which also correlated with each other ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
here , we show that the p400 atpase is required for dna repair by homologous recombination ( hr ) .
indeed , although p400 is not required for dna damage signaling , dna dsb repair is defective in the absence of p400 .
we demonstrate that p400 is important for hr-dependent processes , such as recruitment of rad51 to dsb ( a key component of hr ) , homology-directed repair , and survival after dna damage .
strikingly , p400 and rad51 are present in the same complex and both favor chromatin remodeling around dsbs .
altogether , our data provide a direct molecular link between rad51 and a chromatin remodeling enzyme involved in chromatin decompaction around dna dsbs .
annexin v assay , cell cycle , and activation of caspase-3 demonstrates that ym155 induced apoptosis in sk-nep-1 cells .
death receptor signaling ( 3.87e-19 ) , tnfr1 signaling , induction of apoptosis by hiv1 , apoptosis signaling and molecular mechanisms of cancer came out to be the top four most significant pathways .
conclusions : the present study demonstrates that ym155 treatment resulted in apoptosis and inhibition of cell proliferation of sk-nep-1cells .
and our results may provide new clues of molecular mechanism of apoptosis induced by ym155 .
three years later , the tumor marker level began to rise and computed tomography ( ct ) revealed lymph node metastasis invading the pancreas resulting in pancreatic duct dilatation .
after 3 courses , the tumor marker level normalized , tumor size decreased , and the invasion was eliminated .
the chimeric protein was able to bind to antigen-specific cd8+ t cells with nearly 100% efficiency and strongly induce their activation and proliferation .
furthermore , intradermal vaccination with dna encoding sct-ag/igg could generate significant numbers of cytotoxic effector t cells against tumor self-antigen and leads to successful therapeutic outcomes in a preclinical model of metastatic melanoma .
the ionizing radiation ( ir)-induced apoptosis was significant in h1299-p53 compared with in h1299 and h199-175h ( p&lt;0.05 ) by flow cytometry , and the expression of cleaved-caspase3 was increased in h1299-p53 cells .
while the ir-induced autophagy was significant in h1299 cells ( p&lt;0.01 ) and decreased in h1299-p53 and h1299-175h cells ( p&lt;0.01 ) by mdc staining , the expression of maplc3ii and beclin-1 increased in h1299 , but not in h1299-p53 and h199-175h cells .
the ir-induced cell survival was significantly increased by z-vad-fmk and decreased by 3ma in h1299-p53 cells ; ir- induced autophagy was significantly increased by z-vad-fmk in h1299-p53 cells ( p&lt;0.01 ) , but not changed in h1299 cells .
conclusion : p53 could regulate radiosensitivity by inhibiting autophagy and activating apoptosis ; autophagy provides a prosurvival mechanism , and p53 potently abrogated the ir-induced autophagy , while mutant 175h shown no effect on radiosensitivity , suggesting that individual treatment strategies should be based on p53 status in patients .
furthermore , atg13 knockdown significantly reduced its protein level , which in turn abolished sunitinib-induced autophagy .
moreover , inhibition of autophagy by sirnas targeting atg13 or by pharmacological inhibition with ammonium chloride , enhanced both sunitinib-induced apoptosis and anti-proliferation .
thus , sunitinib-induced autophagy is dependent on the suppression of mtorc1 signaling and the formation of ulk1/2-atg13-fip200 complexes .
inhibition of autophagy may be a promising therapeutic option for improving the anti-tumor effect of sunitinib .
results : proteasome inhibitors suppressed proliferation and induced autophagy in ovarian cancer cells .
conclusions : for the first time , the current study demonstrated that proteasome inhibitors induced pi3k and beclin 1-independent autophagy in ovarian cancer cells .
in addition , this study revealed autophagy-independent tumor suppressive effects of beclin 1 in ovarian cancer cells .
flow cytometry and confocal microscopy studies in du145 human prostate cancer cells indicated that 1 induces cell cycle arrest in the g(2)/m phase and causes defective mitosis .
it was determined also that 1 produces programed cell death by apoptosis , as evidenced by biochemical markers and distinct changes in cell morphology .
we identified two overlapping src-1 peptides that interact with ar , but not with progesterone receptor .
moreover they inhibited androgen dependent proliferation of lncap cells and proliferation of c4-2 cells in androgen depleted medium without affecting ar negative pc-3 cells .
after treatment with 200g/ml of sppm60 , the percentage of s phase cells was decreased , but that of g(2)/m phase was significantly increased ( 72h vs control : 32.960.33% vs 18.590.04% , 3.440.05% vs 18.300.08% , p&lt;0.01 ) .
conclusion : sppm60 causes arrest of hepg2 cells at g(2)/m phase , and the mechanism is related to the down-regulation of cdk1 and cyclinb and up-regulation of p53 and p21 expression .
ectopic restoration of mir-100 expression in bc cells suppressed cell proliferation and motility , induced cell-cycle arrest in vitro , and inhibited tumorigenesis in vivo both in subcutaneous and intravesical passage .
in addition , the cancerous metastatic nude mouse model established on the basis of primary bc cell lines suggested that mir-100/mtor regulated cell motility and was associated with tumor metastasis .
both mtor and p70s6k ( downstream messenger ) presented higher expression levels in distant metastatic foci such as in liver and kidney metastases than in primary tumor .
inhibition of wee1 by mk-1775 treatment of dipg cells inhibited the ir-induced wee1-mediated phosphorylation of cdc2 , resulting in reduced g2/m arrest and decreased cell viability .
akt kinase was activated by smoking compounds through reactive oxygen species-dependent mechanism .
molecular or pharmacologic inhibitions of akt prevented the antiapoptotic effect of smoking compounds .
smoking compounds stimulated rapid ( 1 hour ) and transient activation of 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase and formation of autophagic vacuoles , indicating stimulation of autophagy .
repeated exposure to cse/nnk ( 48 hours or longer ) abolished the early activation of autophagic markers .
inhibition of akt prevented the antiautophagic effect of long exposure to smoking compounds , indicating that smoking-induced late activation of akt prevents autophagy .
conclusions : long exposure of pancreatic ductal cells to smoking compounds inhibited apoptosis and autophagy .
liver-specific p38 ablation was found to enhance ros accumulation , which appears to be exerted through the reduced expression of antioxidant protein hsp25 ( hspb1 ) , a mouse homolog of hsp27 .
intriguingly , the risk of human hcc recurrence is positively correlated with ros accumulation in liver .
thus , p38 and its target hsp25/hsp27 appear to play a conserved and critical hepatoprotective function by curtailing ros accumulation in liver parenchymal cells engaged in oxidative metabolism of exogenous chemicals .
augmented oxidative stress of liver parenchymal cells may explain the close relationship between liver fibrosis and hepatocarcinogenesis .
surgery promotes inhibitory factors that allow lingering immunosuppressive cells to repopulate small pockets of residual disease quickly .
this complex network of immunosuppression in the surrounding tumor microenvironment explains the resistance of tumor recurrences to conventional cancer vaccines despite small tumor size , an intact antitumor immune response , and unaltered cancer cells .
therapeutic strategies coupling antitumor agents with inhibition of immunosuppressive cells potentially could impact the outcomes of more than 250,000 people each year .
sulfites , at a concentration similar to that found in some foods , induced a high density of mutations , almost always as substitutions at cytosines in the ssdna overhang strand , resulting in simultaneous inactivation of at least two reporter genes .
furthermore , sulfites formed a long-lived adducted 2'-deoxyuracil intermediate in dna that was resistant to excision by uracil-dna n-glycosylase .
this intermediate was bypassed by error-prone translesion dna synthesis , frequently involving pol  , during repair synthesis .
our results suggest that sulfite-induced lesions in dna can be particularly deleterious , since cells might not possess the means to repair or bypass such lesions accurately .
here , we show that exposure of non-malignant prostate epithelial cells ( hpr-1ar ) to androgen led to activation of the atm/atr dna damage response and induction of cellular senescence .
this mechanism appears to preserve androgen induced autophosphorylation of atm and phosphorylation of h2ax , lesion processing and repair pathway yet restrain atm/chk1/chk2 and p53 signaling pathway .
our results suggest that the innate immunity and inflammation pathway may play a modest role in the etiology of advanced prostate cancer through multiple small effects .
we observed that colorectal mucosal inflammation became increasingly severe with aom and dss treatment .
after aom and dss treatment , the mice showed enhanced production of metalloproteinase ( mmp)-9 and neutrophil elastase ( ne ) , accompanied by excessive vessel generation and cell proliferation .
for this , we carried out experiments to determine the effect of drug-induced senescence on secretion of sasp , -catenin transactivation , and the relationship between these processes .
the findings indicate that drug-induced senescence was associated with expression of various wnt ligands in addition to previously known sasp components .
beta catenin transactivation and expression of genes implicated in epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) also increased in response to drug-induced sasp .
pyrvinium also suppressed the effects of sasp on cell migration and resistance to doxorubicin .
together , these findings provide insights on the potential role of bcdc in mediating the effects of drug-induced sasp on cancer cell invasion and resistance to therapy , and suggest that targeting this pathway may represent an effective approach to enhance the activity of current and prospective anti-cancer therapeutics .
furthermore , p53bers produce , ina p53-dependent manner , enhancer rnas ( ernas ) that are required for efficient transcriptional enhancement of interacting target genes and induction of a p53-dependent cell-cycle arrest .
jaceosidin induced g2/m phase cell cycle arrest and modulated the levels of cyclin b and p-cdc2 in hec1a cells .
these data suggest that jaceosidin , isolated from japanese mugwort , modulates the erk/atm/chk1/2 pathway , leading to inactivation of the cdc2-cyclin b1 complex , followed by g2/m cell cycle arrest in endometrial cancer cells .
here we show that ampk negatively regulates aerobic glycolysis ( the warburg effect ) in cancer cells and suppresses tumor growth invivo .
inactivation of ampk in both transformed and nontransformed cells promotes a metabolic shift to aerobic glycolysis , increased allocation of glucose carbon into lipids , and biomass accumulation .
these metabolic effects require normoxic stabilization of the hypoxia-inducible factor-1 ( hif-1 ) , as silencing hif-1 reverses the shift to aerobic glycolysis and the biosynthetic and proliferative advantages conferred by reduced ampk signaling .
in addition we found that pda-66 induces mitotic arrest of cells in the g(2)/m phase of the cell cycle .
subsequently cells undergo apoptosis , indicating the major mechanism of the anti-proliferative effect .
using a combined bioinformatics approach , gene set enrichment analysis and mirna target prediction , we found that mir-30d might regulate multiple genes in the autophagy pathway including becn1 , bnip3l , atg12 , atg5 , atg2 .
our further functional experiments demonstrated that the expression of these core proteins in the autophagy pathway was directly suppressed by mir-30d in cancer cells .
finally , we showed that mir-30d regulated the autophagy process by inhibiting autophagosome formation and lc3b-i conversion to lc3b-ii .
taken together , our results provide evidence that the oncomir mir-30d impairs the autophagy process by targeting multiple genes in the autophagy pathway .
in this study , we have demonstrated that compound c not only induced autophagy in all tested skin cancer cell lines but also caused more apoptosis in p53 wildtype skin cancer cells than in p53-mutant skin cancer cells .
the changes of p53 status were dependent on dna damage which was caused by compound c induced reactive oxygen species ( ros ) generation and associated with activated ataxia-telangiectasia mutated ( atm ) protein .
using the wildtype p53-expressing bcc cells versus stable p53-knockdown bcc sublines , we present evidence that p53-knockdown cancer cells were much less sensitive to compound c treatment with significant g2/m cell cycle arrest and attenuated the compound c-induced apoptosis but not autophagy .
the compound c induced g2/m arrest in p53-knockdown bcc cells was associated with the sustained inactive tyr15 phosphor-cdc2 expression .
overall , our results established that compound c-induced apoptosis in skin cancer cells was dependent on the cell's p53 status .
by transient transfection with expression plasmids , 10(-9)m bpa significantly transactivates the gpr30-5'-flanking region through activating the gpr30 , cgmp-dependent protein kinase ( pkg ) , estrogen receptor- ( er- ) , and efgr-erk pathways .
an increase in tunel-positive cells in skin lesions was accompanied by the enhanced bax:bcl-2 ratio .
the expression of pro-apoptotic bax was increased whereas anti-apoptotic bcl-2 reduced .
a reduced expression of pcna and cyclin d1 associated with the dampening of cell cycle progression was observed .
uvb-induced inflammatory responses were diminished by no-sulindac as observed by a remarkable reduction in the levels of phosphorylated map kinases erk1/2 , p38 and jnk1/2 .
no-sulindac significantly diminished the progression of benign lesions to invasive carcinomas by suppressing the tumor aggressiveness and retarding epithelial-mesenchymal transition .
the suppressive effect of osu-cg5 was evidenced by marked decreases in ki67 immunostaining and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( pcna ) expression in the prostate .
microarray analysis indicated a central role for akt , and western blot analysis showed reduced phosphorylation and/or expression levels of akt , src , androgen receptor , and insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor in prostate lobes .
our study revealed that overexpression of pten gene did not induce apoptosis of human asmcs cultured in vitro .
however , overexpression of pten inhibited proliferation of human asmcs cultured in vitro and was associated with downregulation of akt phosphorylation levels , while did not affect erk1/2 phosphorylation levels .
moreover , overexpression of pten could induce asmcs arrested in the g0/g1 phase through the downregulation of cyclin d1 and upregulation of p21 expressions .
however , a significant increase of dna damage was shown after a single dose of irinotecan as well as the single compounds cyanidin ( cy ) and cyanidin-3-glucoside ( cy-3-g ) .
furthermore , a significant reduction of irinotecan-induced dna-strand breaks after a pretreatment with cy , cy-3-g and blackberry extract was observed .
furthermore , we found that stable silencing of klf4 obviously suppressed the g1/s arrest and anti-proliferation effects induced by ppar ligands .
survival time post splenectomy was independent of the growth pattern ; however , it was influenced by chemotherapy and metastases .
immunohistochemical assessment of the expression of angiogenic factors ( fetal liver kinase-1 , angiopoietin-2 , angiopoietin receptor-2 and vascular endothelial growth factor a ) and conventional endothelial markers ( cd31 , factor viii-related antigen ) revealed variable expression , particularly in undifferentiated hsas .
compound c significantly inhibited the receptor tyrosine phosphorylation and the activity of downstream signaling molecules , such as p85 phosphoinositide 3-kinase , phospholipase c-1 , and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 , induced by platelet-derived growth factor ( pdgf ) but not by epidermal growth factor- and insulin-like growth factor .
in vitro growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase activity profiling revealed the ic(50) for pdgf receptor- ( pdgfr ) to be 5.07 m , whereas the ic(50) for the epidermal growth factor receptor and insulin-like growth factor receptor was 100 m .
results significant association was observed between low mgmt expression and advanced clinical stage of osccs and lymph node metastasis ( p=0.03 ) .
arecoline was found to elevate mgmt expression in a dose- and time-dependent manner .
the addition of nicotine was found to enhance arecoline-induced mgmt expression .
conclusion our results indicate that mgmt could be used clinically as a predictive marker for tumor processing , the potential for lymph node metastasis as well as advanced clinical stage .
mgmt expression was significantly upregulated by arecoline in hoks .
nicotine has a synergistic effect of arecoline-induced mgmt expression .
the cigarette smoking may act synergistically in the pathogenesis of oscc in areca quid chewers via the upregulation of mgmt .
we examined the role and function of alkbh2 in human bladder cancer development in vitro and provide the first report that suppression of alkbh2 in a human urothelial carcinoma cell line , ku7 , reduced the expression of the transmembrane mucin protein , muc1 , and induced g1 cell cycle arrest .
moreover , reduction of alkbh2 suppressed epithelial to mesenchymal transition ( emt ) via increasing e-cadherin and decreasing vimentin expression .
transfection of muc1 sirna inhibited cell proliferation and emt to the same extent as alkbh2 gene silencing in vitro .
this study demonstrates that alkbh2 is an upstream molecule of the oncoprotein , muc1 , and regulates cell cycle and emt , resulting in progression of urothelial carcinomas .
the relationship between autophagy and apoptosis was further investigated by applying pharmacological inhibition studies , which indicated that impairment of autophagy enhanced the anti-tumor effect of sdt through induction of apoptosis and necrosis , while caspase inhibition didn't affect autophagic vacuoles formation or protect sdt induced cytotoxicity .
the findings supported that autophagic vacuoles formed upstream and independently from caspase-dependent cell death .
additionally , the possible mechanism of sdt-induced autophagy was evaluated by measurement of ros ( reactive oxygen species ) formation .
result suggested ros play important role in initiating autophagy , possibly through the sono-damaged mitochondria being enclosed by autophagic vacuoles .
all together , these data indicate that autophagy may be cytoprotective in our experimental system , and point to an important insight into how autophagy inhibitors , in combination with sdt may contribute a regimen for cancer therapy .
in vitro functional analysis showed that over-expression of mir-362-3p in colon cancer cell lines reduced cell viability , and proliferation mainly due to cell cycle arrest .
we found a significant increase in p53 and its downstream target , p21 , levels in dichlorvos-treated microglial cells compared with control cells .
moreover , dichlorvos exposure promoted the levels of different cell cycle regulatory proteins .
the captured md-fraction was then transported to the spleen , thereby inducing the systemic immune response .
the therapeutic response of orally administered md-fraction was associated with ( i ) induced systemic tumor-antigen specific t cell response via dectin-1-dependent activation of dcs , ( ii ) increased infiltration of the activated t cells into the tumor , and ( iii ) decreased number of tumor-caused immunosuppressive cells such as regulatory t cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells .
cell cycle was analyzed using flow cytometry and showed that sal caused cell cycle arrest of the various hcc cell lines in different phases .
sal induced apoptosis as characterized by an increase in the bax/bcl-2 ratio .
immunohistochemistry and tunel staining also demonstrated that sal inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in vivo .
this study demonstrates sal inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis of hcc cells in vitro and in vivo and one potential mechanism is inhibition of wnt/-catenin signaling via increased intracellular ca(2+) levels .
the p2x7 receptor protein and mrna of all known isoforms were expressed in wt pscs , while ko pscs only expressed truncated versions of the receptor .
the intracellular ca(2+) signals and proliferation rate induced by micromolar atp concentrations were inhibited by the allosteric p2x7 receptor inhibitor az10606120 .
this study shows that atp and p2x7 receptors are important regulators of psc proliferation and death , and therefore might be potential targets for treatments of pancreatic fibrosis and cancer .
we demonstrate that hcc cells expressing the t41a -catenin active mutant show enhanced proliferation that is dependent in part on ar expression and egfr signaling .
we also demonstrate here a novel cross-talk of the egfr system with fibroblast growth factor 19 ( fgf19 ) .
fgf19 is a recently identified driver gene in hepatocarcinogenesis and an activator of -catenin signaling in hcc and colon cancer cells .
importantly , ar up-regulation and egfr signaling participated in the induction of cyclin d1 and cell proliferation elicited by fgf19 .
further studies revealed that treatment with r2hbjj arrested the cell cycle in g0/g1 by down-regulation of cyclin d1-cdk4/6-rb .
we found a selection of dna repair genes , including some not previously reported , that are modulated in response to radiation .
alternative transcription products in response to ir were identified in several dna repair genes including rrm2b and xpc where alternative initiation sites were found .
these investigations have advanced the knowledge about the transcriptional response of dna repair .
all the compounds produced changes in mitochondrial transmembrane potential and cell cycle progression , showed a cytostatic effect and induced apoptosis in the tested cancer line in a concentration- and time-dependent manner .
the most effective compounds zkk-3 , zkk-9 and zkk-13 produced , at 20 microm concentration , apoptosis in 42 , 46 , and 66% of the cells , respectively , after 48 h incubation .
two selected s-2,3,4,5,6-pentabromobenzylisothiouronium bromides ( zkk-3 , zkk-9 ) showed also a synergic proapoptotic effect with the new casein kinase ii inhibitor 2-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-4,5,6,7-tetrabromo-1h-benzimidazole ( tbipip ) in the pc3 cell line .
after the ec9706 cells were exposed to 100 nmol/l bufalin,the number of cells gradually decreased in g(1) phase and increased in s and g(2)/m phases(p&lt;0.05) .
the typical nucleus morphological changes of apoptosis were observed and the apoptotic index was increased(p&lt;0.01) .
the mitochondrial h ( + ) -atp synthase and the acaca/fasn-driven lipogenic switch are newly characterized as instrumental metabolic events that , by coupling the warburg effect to anabolic metabolism , enable de-differentiation during the reprogramming of somatic cells to ips cells .
using four pairs of filamin-a proficient and deficient isogenic cell lines , we found that filamin-a deficiency in cancer cells significantly reduces their migration and invasion .
using a xenograft tumor model with subcutaneous and intracardiac injections of tumor cells , we found that the filamin-a deficiency causes significant reduction of lung , splenic and systemic metastasis in nude mice .
we evaluated the expression of filamin-a in breast cancer tissues by immunohistochemical staining , and found that low levels of filamin-a expression in cancer cells of the tumor tissues are associated with a better distant metastasis-free survival than those with normal levels of filamin-a .
these data not only validate filamin-a as a prognostic marker for cancer metastasis , but also suggest that inhibition of filamin-a in cancer cells may reduce metastasis and that filamin-a can be used as a therapeutic target for filamin-a positive cancer .
ezh2 was successfully depleted after retroviral infection in c666-1 cells , and the ezh2 depletion could inhibit the proliferation and arrested g1/s phase of npc cells .
sup-odn-mediated g1 phase cell cycle arrest was achieved via inhibition of akt and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 phosphorylation and the p15ink4b and p27kip1/retinoblastoma protein pathway .
in addition , sup odns induced apoptosis and enhanced apoptosis when combined with vinorelbine .
we now demonstrate that protection from double-strand break damage in er+ cells is mediated via regulation by c-myc , p53 , cbp and src1 coactivators in intron 1 of the nbs1 gene .
we concluded that nbs1 is responsible for estradiol-mediated protection from double-strand breaks in er+ breast cancer cells .
further investigation showed that stm-57 induced autophagy , as determined with the increased expression of green fluorescent protein-light chain3 ( gfp-lc3 ) and increased lc3-ii levels .
the intracellular calcium concentration and reactive oxygen species levels were increased in cne-2 cells following treatment with stm-57 , whereas the mitochondrial transmembrane potential ( m ) and atp concentrations were decreased .
remarkably , tnf-alpha-expressing breast cancer cells were viable , without any significant increases in their basal apoptotic rate .
similarly , tnf-alpha-overexpressing fibroblasts were also viable , without any increases in apoptosis .
in addition , via qrt-pcr analysis of mda-mb-231 cells , we observed that tnf-alpha mediated the up-regulation of gene transcripts associated with inflammation and senescence [ il-1-beta , il-6 , il-8 , mcp-1 , cox-2 , p21(waf1/cip1) ] and downregulated known tumor-promoting genes ( collagen vi and mmp2 ) .
the suppression of her-2 expression resulted in apoptosis and the inhibition of metastasis of skov-3 cells .
therefore , the overexpression of the her-2 gene can enhance the metastatic potential of skov-3 cells by increasing the protein levels of mmp-9 .
epithelial-mesenchymal transition may be involved in the her-2 sirna-induced invasion and migration of skov-3 cells .
taken together , these results suggest that her-2 functions as an oncogene and may thus be an attractive therapeutic target in skov-3 ovarian cancer cells .
we demonstrated that sulfuretin mediated the inhibition of tpa-induced mmp-9 expression and that cell invasion in mcf-7 cells involved suppression of the nf-b pathway .
therefore , inhibiting mmp-9 expression by sulfuretin may have therapeutic potential for controlling breast cancer invasiveness .
tobacco exposure enhance the inflammation in prostate carcinoma patients in stratified group as it have been represented as a risk factors in various cancers , but this study provide further its role that seems to influence inflammation especially in prostate carcinoma .
methods and results primary vsmcs were stimulated with serum in the absence or presence of apoe3. apoe3 upregulated expression of the cdk inhibitor , p27(kip1) , in primary vsmcs , and this effect required cox2 and activation of pgi(2)-ip signaling .
combined blockade of akt/mtor pathway by rad5-am diminished cell proliferative activities , and induced cell apoptosis and cycle arrest with the decreased expression of akt , mtor and pcna in proliferative phase hdec .
combined blockade of akt/mtor pathway might suppress cell proliferation via down-regulation of pcna expression , and induce apoptosis and cycle arrest in proliferative phase hdec , suggesting that akt/mtor pathway might represent the important therapeutic targets for human ha .
when patients were stratified based on their serum ferritin and crp levels , patients with elevation in both inflammatory biomarkers had a markedly poorer response to trastuzumab-containing therapy .
therefore , the elevation in inflammatory serum biomarkers may reflect a pathological state that decreases the clinical efficacy of this therapy .
anti-inflammatory drugs and life-style changes to decrease inflammation in cancer patients should be explored as possible strategies to sensitize patients to anti-cancer therapeutics .
these results suggest that aberrant cdk6 expression or activation that is frequently observed in human tumors can contribute through nf-b to chronic inflammation and neoplasia .
in vitro studies using rat aortic ring assay showed that luteolin at non-toxic concentrations significantly inhibited microvessel sprouting and proliferation , migration , invasion and tube formation of endothelial cells , which are key events in the process of angiogenesis .
luteolin also inhibited ex vivo angiogenesis as revealed by chicken egg chorioallantoic membrane assay ( cam ) and matrigel plug assay .
cd31 and cd34 immunohistochemical staining further revealed that the microvessel density could be remarkably suppressed by luteolin .
moreover , luteolin reduced cell viability and induced apoptosis in prostate cancer cells , which were correlated with the downregulation of akt , erk , mtor , p70s6k , mmp-2 , and mmp-9 expressions .
taken together , our findings demonstrate that luteolin inhibits human prostate tumor growth by suppressing vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2-mediated angiogenesis .
the results showed that an increased cd68 count and cd68/(cd3+cd20) ratio were directly associated with both mmp-11 and timp-2 expression by mononuclear inflammatory cells at the tumor center ( p=0.041 and p=0.025 for cd68 count and p=0.001 and p=0.045 for ratio , respectively for mmp-11 and timp-2 ) .
loss- and gain-of-function experiments in human bronchial epithelial and lung carcinoma cell lines revealed that ascl1 , mmp-7 and mgmt are able to protect cells from the tobacco-specific nitrosamine nnk-induced dna damage and the alkylating agent cisplatin-induced apoptosis .
we conclude that ascl1 potentially enhances dna repair through activation of mmp-7 and mgmt which may impact lung carcinogenesis and chemoresistance .
decreased proliferation of ishikawa and ecc-1 cells was a direct result of sdge-induced apoptosis as demonstrated by fitc-annexin v staining and expression of cleaved caspase 3 .
sdge was more effective in inducing cancer cell death than citral , suggesting that other terpenes present in sdge were also contributing to endometrial cancer cell death .
this increase in p53 was associated with 90% decrease in bcl2 whereas no effect was observed on bax .
inhibitor of p53 , pifithrin- , attenuated the anti-cancer effects of sdge and apoptosis was also not observed in the p53(neg) skov-3 cells .
our studies demonstrate that terpenoids from sdge mediate apoptosis by activating p53 and should be therefore be investigated as agents for the treatment of endometrial cancer .
subsequently , ra-triggered du145 apoptosis detected by sub-g1 phase accumulation and annexin v staining could also be blocked by cp treatment .
furthermore , ra-triggered caspase 3 activation and following cdk5 over-activation were destroyed by treatments of both cp and cdk5 knockdown .
in conclusion , we report a new mechanism in which ra could cause apoptosis of androgen-independent prostate cancer cells through p35 cleavage and cdk5 over-activation .
using a cfse proliferation assay , we found that wev+np strongly inhibited mm cell proliferation .
furthermore , analysis of the cell cycle using the propidium iodide ( pi ) staining method indicated that wev+np strongly altered the cell cycle of mm cells and enhanced the induction of apoptosis .
also , normal p16 expression was related to a lower risk of tumour progression .
mmp2 , p21 , cyclin d1 , and prb showed no significant results that could estimate progression or recurrence .
normal p16 expression is associated with a lower risk of tumour progression , but immunohistochemistry on cell cycle regulators and mmps has little value in predicting the prognosis in stage t1 ucb .
together , this work further characterizes the transcriptional activator function of rb and defines a potential role for rb in regulating angiogenesis through activation of nol7 .
our data provide evidence to support the hypothesis that reactivation of prb can potentially modulate the expression of the angiogenic phenotype through regulation of nol7 .
the result of the univariate analysis suggested that clinical stage , cell differentiation , depth of cervical stromal invasion , parametrial tissue involvement , and lymph node metastasis were prognostic factors for patients with stage ib to iib cervical cancer ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
compared with cases with involvement of iliac nodes , obturator nodes , or inguinal lymph nodes , cases with metastasis to the common iliac lymph nodes had a poorer prognosis ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
using multivariate cox proportional hazards model regression analysis , non-squamous histological type , poor differentiation , parametrial tissue involvement , and outer 1/3 stromal invasion were found to be independently related to patients poor prognosis ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
conclusion non-squamous histological type , poor cell differentiation , parametrial tissue involvement , and outer 1/3 stromal invasion are the independent poor prognostic factors for patients with stage ib to iib cervical cancer .
our studies showed that ethyl acetate extract of onion ( eeo ) had potent inhibitory effects on animal fatty acid synthase ( fas ) , and could induce apoptosis in fas over-expressing human breast cancer mda-mb-231 cells .
furthermore , this apoptosis was accompanied by reduction of intracellular fas activity and could be rescued by 25 mm or 50 mm exogenous palmitic acids , the final product of fas catalyzed synthesis .
these results suggest that the apoptosis induced by eeo occurs via inhibition of fas .
in addition , invasion of hcc cells was observed after overexpressing or silencing cote1 .
overexpression of cote1 enhanced hcc-derived lm6 and mhcc-l cellular invasion in vitro .
cote1 may be closely correlated with invasion of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) cells and thus may serve as an effective target for gene therapy .
our data showed that nigella sativa extracts significantly inhibited human breast cancer mda-mb-231 cell proliferation at doses of 2.5-5 g/ml ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
apoptotic induction in mda-mb-231 cells was observed in a dose-dependent manner after exposure to nigella sativa extracts for 48 h .
real time pcr and flow cytometry analyses suggested that nigella sativa extracts possess the ability to suppress the proliferation of human breast cancer cells through induction of apoptosis .
in this study , a different susceptibility to mcme was found in human lung adenocarcinoma cl1 cells with different metastatic ability , leading to the significant difference of cell viability and invasiveness between mcme-treated cl1-0 and cl1-5 cells .
mcme was found to upregulate the expression of wnt-2 and affect the migratory and invasive ability of cl1 cells through suppressed mmp-2 and mmp-9 enzymatic activities .
we proposed that mcme mediates inhibition against migration of cl1 cells by reducing the expression and activation of src and fak to decrease the expression of downstream akt , -catenin , and mmps .
positive vegf-a immunostaining was significantly associated with pakt immunostaining .
microvessel density was correlated with both vegf-a and pakt positivity .
conclusions phosphorylated akt and vegf-a are involved in angiogenesis of gastric adenocarcinoma , and akt activation may contribute to angiogenesis via vegf-a upregulation .
the pi3k/akt/vegf signalling pathway may be involved in gastric adeno carcinoma .
at the concentration of 2.5-20 g/ml , oct significantly reduced ic50 ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) and promoted apoptosis ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) of skov3-ddp cells ' response to cisplatin .
oct increased gst-pi expression ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) and reduced mrp2 and egfr expression ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) in a dose-dependent manner .
it is suggested that oct could inhibit ovarian cancer proliferation and promote apoptosis , via the cell surface sstr2 , and reverse cisplatin resistance through inhibition of mrp2 , egfr , and even gst-pi expressions .
this overexpression induced emt and a csc-like phenotype in human crc cells and enhanced cell migration and invasion ( p &lt ; 0.002 vs. control ) .
snail overexpression also led to an increase in metastasis formation in vivo ( p &lt ; 0.002 vs. control ) .
increased snail expression induces emt and the csc-like phenotype in crc cells , which enhance cancer cell invasion and chemoresistance .
thus , snail is a potential therapeutic target in metastatic crc .
apoptosis was significantly augmented and cell proliferation was inhibited .
we report an important mechanism for this antagonism , inhibition of hippo pathway signaling by mitogenic growth factors .
a small-molecule inhibitor screen of downstream effector pathways shows that egf receptor inhibits the hippo pathway through activation of pi3-kinase ( pi3k ) and phosphoinositide-dependent kinase ( pdk1 ) , but independent of akt activity .
these findings show that an important activity of mitogenic signaling pathways is to inactivate the growth-inhibitory hippo pathway and provide a mechanism for antagonism between contact inhibition and growth factor action .
the average lung metastatic nodule was 16 in the blank control group and 10 in the rsr group .
the inhibition rate of lung metastasis was 37. 85% in the rsr group , but with no statistical significance .
it might achieve its anti-tumor effect through effecting the invasive and metastatic capabilities of breast tumor cells .
consistent with increased bnip3 expression , chemotherapeutic agents and radiation induced colon carcinoma cell apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner .
based on these observations , we conclude that chemotherapy and radiotherapy inhibit dnmt1 expression to upregulate bnip3 expression to promote crc cell apoptosis .
and , bnip3 may play a role in the caspase-dependent apoptosis pathways , mainly during treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy .
it was demonstrated that a delayed tumor growth and malignancy progression was achieved by mediating tumor cell apoptosis , vascular injury , degrading metastasis potential and as well as inhibiting the immunosuppressive cell myeloid derived suppressor cells ( mdscs ) recruitment .
monolayer cultured cells were polygonal in shape , showing a pavement-like arrangement and a tendency to stack without contact inhibition .
the prevalence of the t1653 mutation in the x region and the a1896 mutation in the precore region of hbv was significantly higher in the hcc group than in the control chb group ( 22% vs 11% , p = 0.003 ; 50% vs 23% , p &lt ; 0.001 , respectively ) .
moreover , the t1762/a1764 mutations in the bcp region in combination with either t1653 or a1896 were more common in the hcc compared with the chb group ( bcp+x1653 : 18% vs 11% , p = 0.05 ; bcp+pc , 40% vs 15% , p &lt ; 0.001 , respectively ) .
g1896a in the precore region and c1653t mutation in the x region of genotype c2 hbv are important risk factors for hcc development .
also , the a1762t/g1764a double mutation may act in synergy with c1653t to increase the risk of hcc in patients chronically infected with hbv genotype c2 .
results within the analyzed samples , we detected four mutations in exon 8 , two mutations in exon 17 , and mutations or a double mutation in one sample .
conclusion the tests detecting mutations in exon 8 and 17 on the kit gene were successfully standardized .
when compared to hamsters bearing tumors that remained on the control diet , the buccal pouches of hamsters bearing tumors receiving turmeric showed the following results : ( 1 ) decreased cell proliferation ( diminished pcna , cyclin d1 , and bcl-2 ) and pcna labelling index , ( 2 ) enhanced apoptosis ( increased bax , caspase-3 , caspase-9 , and cytochrome c , and decreased survivin ) and apoptotic index , ( 3 ) decreased inflammation ( decreased cox-2 ) , and ( 4 ) decreased mapk activation ( p-erk and p-p38 ) .
compared with lncap/nsp cells , lncap/sp cells exhibited high expressions of integrin alpha2 , nanog , cd44 , oct4 and abcg2 , remarkably enhanced invasive and proliferative potentials in vitro , and markedly increased tumorigenicity and metastasis ( p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
hm781-36b induced g1 arrest and resulted in apoptosis .
it reduced the level of p-her2 , p-akt , p-erk , and p-stat3 .
hm781-36b combined with 5-fluorouracil , cisplatin , paclitaxel , or gemcitabine showed a synergistic inhibitory effect on the her2-amplified and on some of the her2-nonamplified breast cancer cells .
hm781-36b could be a promising treatment for her2-amplified breast cancer as a single agent or in combination with cytotoxic agents and can be a candidate for treatment of her2-nonamplified breast cancer in combination with cytotoxic agents .
using two models of cell cycle synchronization ( i.e. mechanical injury and serum addition ) , we show that an ectopic upregulation of mir-483-3p blocks cell cycle progression in early g1 phase .
we show that the mirna-induced silencing of cdc25a increases the tyrosine phosphorylation status of cdk4/6 cyclin-dependent kinases which , in turn , abolishes cdk4/6 capacity to associate with d-type cyclins .
this prevents cdk4/6 kinases ' activation , impairs downstream events such as cyclin e stimulation and sequesters cells in early g1 .
we propose this new regulatory process of cyclin-cdk association as a general mechanism coupling mirna-mediated cdc25a invalidation to cdk post-transcriptional modifications and cell cycle control .
mutational analysis revealed that tu-oc-1 cells harbored a pik3ca mutation at codon 542 ( e542k ) in exon 9 , which is a mutation hot spot on this gene .
forced expression of stat5 in murine bcr-abl1 transformed cells sufficed to enhance the production of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) and to trigger dna damage .
stat5-mediated ros production is independent of jak2 but requires concomitant bcr-abl1 signalling as forced stat5 expression in untransformed bcr-abl1 negative cells has no impact on ros levels .
only within the context of a bcr-abl1 positive cell does stat5 transcriptionally regulate a target gene or set of genes that causes the enhanced ros production .
our study suggests the existence of a feed-forward loop accelerating disease progression , in which bcr-abl1 enhances its own mutation rate in a stat5-ros dependent manner .
this model explains the increased occurrence of inhibitor-resistant bcr-abl1 mutations in advanced disease stages driven and characterized by high stat5 expression .
the blockade of autocrine tgf- signaling reduced the ability of the cell to grow anchorage-independently and to resist serum deprivation-induced apoptosis .
when xenografted in athymic nude mice , the dnrii cells were also found to undergo apoptosis and induced significantly lower lung metastasis burden than the control cells even though they formed similar size of xenograft tumors .
thus , our results indicate that autocrine tgf- signaling is involved in the maintenance and survival of stem-like cell population resulting in the enhanced metastatic ability of the murine breast cancer cells .
in an ex vivo challenge experiment , we demonstrate , for the first time , that exogenous h2o2 induces a significant increase in mtdna damage in lymphocytes from healthy individuals , but no repair activity is observed after 1 h recovery .
thus , the blood analysis with the multiple mtdna end-points proposed in the current study may provide a simple and sensitive test to interrogate the nature and extent of systemic oxidative stress for a broad spectrum of clinical investigations .
we present the cases of two male patients with a small-cell lung carcinoma whose first clinical symptoms were due to pituitary metastasis .
pituitary metastases occur most commonly with breast cancer in women and lung cancer in men .
we find that overexpression of pkc in a non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cell line is sufficient to overcome contact inhibition and results in the formation of cellular foci .
results obtained by quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ( qrt-pcr ) revealed that fibroblasts on the fibroin surface expressed transforming growth factor -induced protein ( tgfbi ) , which is an extracellular matrix ( ecm ) protein , stronger than on other surfaces in the early cell-culture stages .
these results demonstrate that the fibroin surface shows higher potential to enhance cell migration and the production of ecm than a collagen or fibronectin surface .
results median serum angiopoietin-2 levels with lung cancer ( 2730pg/ml ) ranged from 1171 to 6541pg/ml was higher than the median of the control group ( 1795pg/ml ) ranged from 1076 to 2730/ml , p&lt;0.001 .
in all patients with lung cancer , serum angiopoietin-2 was not significantly correlated with survivin ( r=0.073 , p=0.657 ) .
neither serum angiopoietin-2 nor survivin showed significant relation with the serum angiopoietin-2 or survivin levels depending on the cell types , stage progression , and metastasis among the patients with nsclc .
conclusions our study suggests that serum angiopoietin-2 is a useful marker for the diagnosis of nsclc by eliza technique .
following an initial observation that arsenite-exposed cells in culture acidify their media more rapidly than control cells , the report here shows that low level exposure to arsenite ( 75ppb ) is sufficient to induce aerobic glycolysis ( the warburg effect ) as a generalized phenomenon in cultured human primary cells and cell lines .
expanded studies in one such cell line , the non-malignant pulmonary epithelial line , beas-2b , established that the arsenite-induced warburg effect was associated with increased accumulation of intracellular and extracellular lactate , an increased rate of extracellular acidification , and inhibition by the non-metabolized glucose analog , 2-deoxy-d-glucose .
associated with the induction of aerobic glycolysis was a pathway-wide induction of glycolysis gene expression , as well as protein accumulation of an established glycolysis master-regulator , hypoxia-inducible factor 1a .
from our screen , we identified a deletion mutant strain of the pau24 gene that leads to msi .
in a series of validation experiments , we determined that this pau24 mutant strain had an increased msi-specific mutation rate in comparison to the original background wildtype strain , other deletion mutants and comparable to a mmr mutant involving the mlh1 gene .
likewise , in yeast strains with a deletion of pau24 , we identified specific de novo indel mutations that occurred within the targeted microsatellite used for this screen .
this study concludes that macerated extract of nigella sativa seeds has protective effects against radiation-induced damage and biochemical alterations which could be attributed to the ability to scavenge free radicals and its antioxidant properties .
hence macerated extract of nigella sativa seeds , could be used in combination with radiation to protect against oxidative stress in normal tissues and improving the quality of life of cancer patients by mitigating unwanted side effects of radiation in normal tissues .
conclusions a quantitative model is presented that attributes the well-known warburg effect to a biophysical mechanism driven by a convective disturbance in the cell .
here we show that ku80 , but not xrcc4 , plays an important role in the mechanism of the resistance to cytotoxicity induced by enhanced gfp ( egfp ) .
no egfp-induced cytotoxicity was observed in the nhej core protein xrcc4-deficient hamster cells , i.e. , xr-1 cells .
these results suggest that ku80 plays a key role in the novel nhej-independent defense mechanism against egfp-induced cytotoxicity .
the production of ros was increased in cervical cancer cells as compared with normal cervical epithelia .
ros level was higher in down-regulated cervical cancer cells than in controls and the difference was increasing with culture time .
we also observed increased apoptosis and decreased viable cell number in down-regulated cervical cancer cells .
our results suggest that prxiii is an indispensable ros scavenger , which protects tumor cells against oxidative damage and subsequent apoptosis .
using a targeted proteomics approach , we show that fibroblasts induced into senescence by expression of oncogenic ras exhibit a decrease of global acetylation on all core histones , consistent with formation of senescence-associated heterochromatic foci .
the changes in the cytosolic proteome indicated an upregulation of mitochondrial proteins and downregulation of proteins involved in glycolysis .
these alterations in primary metabolism are opposite to the well-known warburg effect observed in cancer cells .
this study significantly improves our understanding of stress-induced senescence and provides a potential application for triggering it in antiproliferative strategies that target the primary metabolism in cancer cells .
we found that cetuximab downregulated lactate dehydrogenase a ( ldh-a ) and inhibited glycolysis in cetuximab-sensitive head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( hnscc ) cells in an hif-1 downregulation-dependent manner .
hnscc cells with acquired cetuximab resistance expressed a high level of hif-1 and were highly glycolytic .
overexpression of a hif-1 mutant ( hif-1/odd ) conferred resistance to cetuximab-induced g1 phase cell-cycle arrest , which could be overcome by knockdown of ldh-a expression .
cetuximab had no noticeable inhibitory effect on glycolysis in nontransformed cells .
this paper shows the power of systematic proteomic analyses , both targeted and global , in addressing such biological questions , highlighting the widespread nature of histone acetylation changes , and the opposite metabolic changes to those seen in the warburg effect .
s100a11 silencing in ptc-derived cell lines did not affect cell proliferation , whereas it reduced the loss of contact inhibition , anchorage-independent growth , and resistance to anoikis .
cotransfection experiments in nih3t3 cells showed that overexpression of the s100a11 gene was able to enhance the transforming capabilities of the different ptc-associated oncogenes by affecting the loss of contact inhibition , anchorage-independent growth , and in vivo tumor formation .
we observed that invasive lobular carcinoma is characterized by higher expression levels of both nuclear and cytosolic yap ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
rutaecarpine inhibited cell death induced by 500 m h2o2 , as assessed by 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole ( dapi ) staining .
treatment with rutaecarpine reduced the number of dna strand breaks induced by h2o2 , as assessed by dapi staining and comet assay , and increased quinone reductase , phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase , and pakt protein levels , as assessed by western blotting .
the cell-cycle arrests were well correlated with the expression of checkpoint proteins including the up-regulation of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 and p53 and down-regulation of cyclin a , cyclin b1 , cyclin e , cyclin dependent kinase 4 , cdc2 , phosphorylation of rb and cmyc expression .
intact egfr function was verified by the rapid phosphorylation of egfr and downstream mitogen-activated protein(map) kinase erk1/2 upon addition of exogenous egf to serum-starved cells .
by contrast , addition of fetal bovine serum ( fbs ) activated downstream erk1/2 via the map kinase kinase without phosphorylating egfr .
a phosphoreceptor tyrosine kinase array showed fbs-induced activation of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor ( igf-1r),and the igf-1r inhibitor ag1024 inhibited fbs-induced phosphorylation of erk1/2 , implying igf-1r as the major driver of fbs-associated mitogenic signalling in the absence of exogenous egf .
re-seeding exponentially growing cultures at high cell density induced p27/cdkn1b expression and suppressed p-erk1/2 indicating a certain regulation of proliferation by contact inhibition .
after 24weeks , chronic arsenic-exposed breast epithelial ( cabe ) cells showed increases in secreted mmp activity , colony formation , invasion , and proliferation rate , indicating an acquired cancer cell phenotype .
these cabe cells presented with basal-like breast cancer characteristics , including er- , her-2 , and progesterone receptor negativity , and overexpression of k5 and p63 .
cabe cells also formed multilayer cell mounds , indicative of loss of contact inhibition .
epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition occurred during arsenic exposure .
our data suggest that the mpt may play a role in suppression of mitochondrial function , contributing to the warburg effect in cancer .
in the present research , we found that ef24 , a hif-1 inhibitor , could significantly block glucose uptake , the rate of glycolysis , and lactate production compared with vehicle treatment in skov-3 , a2780 and ovcar-3 cells .
these results might possibly contribute to the further observation that ef24 could inhibit ovarian cancer cell migration and invasion from wound healing and transwell assays .
furthermore , as an important mediator of glucose metabolism , glucose transporter 1 ( glut1 ) was found to contribute to the function of ef24 in both energy metabolism and metastasis .
to examine the effect of ef24 and the mediated role of glut1 in vivo in a xenograph subcutaneous tumor model , intraperitoneal metastasis and lung metastasis model were introduced .
our results indicated that ef24 treatment could inhibit tumor growth , intraperitoneal metastasis and lung metastasis of skov-3 cells , and glut1 is a possible mediator for the role of ef24 .
in conclusion , our results highlight that an anti-cancer reagent with an inhibiting effect on energy metabolism could inhibit metastasis , and ef24 is a possible candidate for anti-metastasis therapeutic applications for ovarian cancer .
exposure to co sensitized prostate cancer cells but not normal cells to chemotherapy , with growth arrest and apoptosis induced in vivo in part through mitotic catastrophe .
collectively , our findings indicated that co transiently induces an anti-warburg effect by rapidly fueling cancer cell bioenergetics , ultimately resulting in metabolic exhaustion .
administration of msurvivint34a plasmid complexed with cationic liposome ( dotap/chol ) resulted in the efficacious inhibition of tumor growth and lymph node metastasis within the mouse h22 tumor model .
these responses were associated with tumor cell apoptosis , and angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis inhibition .
our results suggested that lip-msurvivint34a induced apoptosis and inhibited tumor angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis , thus suppressing tumor growth and lymphatic metastasis .
the msurvivint34a survivin mutant is a promising strategy of gene therapy to inhibit lymphatic metastasis .
compared with wild type , pkm2 with the phosphorylation-defective mutation displayed a reduced effect on glycolysis , co-activating hif-1 and -catenin , and cell proliferation , while enhancing mitochondrial respiration of cancer cells .
these findings demonstrate that pim2-dependent phosphorylation of pkm2 is critical for regulating the warburg effect in cancer , highlighting pim2 as a potential therapeutic target .
pdk1 is a hif-1-regulated gene and our findings indicated that hypoxia-induced pdk1 expression may promote egfr activation , initiating a feed-forward loop that can sustain malignant progression .
rnai-mediated attenuation of pdk1 and egfr lowered pdk1-egfr activation and decreased hif-1 expression , shifting the warburg phenotype to oxphos and inhibiting glioblastoma multiforme growth and proliferation .
lactate imaging revealed that diffuse infiltrative areas in glioblastoma xenografts did not present with excessive glycolysis .
in contrast , glycolysis was observed in hypoxic areas in angiogenesis-dependent compact regions of glioma only , especially after anti-angiogenic treatment .
furthermore , we show that glycolysis is more prominent in hypoxic areas than in areas of diffuse infiltrative growth .
the warburg hypothesis of persisting glycolysis in tumors under normoxic conditions may thus not be valid for diffuse glioma .
we demonstrate that reducing mtdna content in human mammary epithelial cells ( hmecs ) activates calcineurin ( cn)-dependent mitochondrial retrograde signaling pathway , which induces emt-like reprogramming to fibroblastic morphology , loss of cell polarity , contact inhibition and acquired migratory and invasive phenotype .
the changes are reversed by either restoring the mtdna content or knockdown of cna mrna , indicating the causal role of retrograde signaling in emt .
our results point to a new therapeutic strategy for metastatic breast cancers targeted to the mitochondrial retrograde signaling pathway for abrogating emt and attenuating cancer stem cells , which evade conventional therapies .
here we provide evidence that the cd43 sialomucin cooperates with oncogenic signals to promote cell transformation by abrogating the contact inhibition of growth through a molecular mechanism that involves akt-dependent merlin phosphorylation and degradation .
findings we have elucidated a novel mechanism through which myeloma cells achieve constitutive glut4 activation involving elevated expression of the rab-gtpase activating protein as160_v2 splice variant to promote the warburg effect .
conclusions this is the first study to tie as160 de-regulation to increased glucose consumption rates and the warburg effect in cancer .
we found that inhibition of anxa2 expression caused cell proliferation to decrease significantly with g1 arrest , motility to be reduced with changes in pseudopodia/filopodia structure and f-actin and -tubulin expression , and apoptosis to be enhanced albeit without significance .
at the same time , anxa2 deletion resulted in fewer pseudopodia/filopodia , non-stained areas were increased , contact inhibition among cells reappeared , and expression of f-actin and -tubulin was decreased , with induction of polymerized disassembled forms .
here we show that lincrna-p21 is a hypoxia-responsive lncrna and is essential for hypoxia-enhanced glycolysis .
these data indicate the existence of a positive feedback loop between hif-1 and lincrna-p21 that promotes glycolysis under hypoxia .
together , these findings suggest that lincrna-p21 is an important player in the regulation of the warburg effect and also implicate lincrna-p21 as a valuable therapeutic target for cancer .
results : based on our data , sod3 rna interference in h-rasv12-transduced cells markedly inhibited cell growth , while sod3 over-expression in mefs initially caused a proliferative burst followed by the activation of dna damage checkpoints , induction of p53-p21 signal transduction , and senescence .
subsequently , sod3-transduced mef cells developed co-operative p21-p16 down-regulation and acquired transformed cell characteristics such as increased telomerase activity , loss of contact inhibition , growth in low-nutrient conditions , and in vivo tumorigenesis .
innovation : sod3 may mediate h-rasv12-induced initiation of primary cell immortalization .
conclusions : our results indicate that sod3 influences growth signaling in primary and cancer cells downstream of the ras oncogene and could serve as a therapy target at an early tumorigenesis phase .
here we show that tumour-associated mutp53 stimulates the warburg effect in cultured cells and mutp53 knockin mice as a new mutp53 gof .
mutp53 stimulates the warburg effect through promoting glut1 translocation to the plasma membrane , which is mediated by activated rhoa and its downstream effector rock .
inhibition of rhoa/rock/glut1 signalling largely abolishes mutp53 gof in stimulating the warburg effect .
furthermore , inhibition of glycolysis in tumour cells greatly compromises mutp53 gof in promoting tumorigenesis .
thus , our results reveal a new mutp53 gof and a mechanism for controlling the warburg effect .
furthermore , ala suppressed glycolysis-mediated acidosis .
this normalization of the atp metabolic pathways significantly increased the generation of superoxide anion radical ( o2- ) and the functional expression of active caspase-3 , leading to caspase-dependent apoptosis .
these data demonstrate that ala inhibits the warburg effect and induces cancer cell death .
in cll cells , we demonstrate that c6-ceramide nanoliposomes , but not control nanoliposomes , induce caspase 3/7-independent necrotic cell death .
nanoliposomal ceramide inhibits both the rna and protein expression of gapdh , an enzyme in the glycolytic pathway , which is overexpressed in cll .
to confirm that ceramide targets gapdh , we demonstrate that downregulation of gapdh potentiates the decrease in atp after ceramide treatment and exogenous pyruvate treatment as well as gapdh overexpression partially rescues ceramide-induced necrosis .
we conclude that selective inhibition of the glycolytic pathway in cll cells with nanoliposomal c6-ceramide could potentially be an effective therapy for leukemia by targeting the warburg effect .
selected analogues and literature-described inhibitors were evaluated for their ability to suppress the glycolytic pathway , as detected by a decrease in lactate production , but none of these compounds demonstrated such suppression at non-cytotoxic concentrations .
as described herein , we found that aberrant expression of the proinflammatory protein transglutaminase 2 ( tg2 ) is an important regulator of the warburg effect in mammary epithelial cells .
moreover , downregulation of p65/rela or hif-1 expression in these cells restored normal glucose uptake , lactate production , mitochondrial respiration and glycolytic protein expression .
a tg2-induced shift in glucose metabolism helps breast cancer cells to survive under stressful conditions and promotes their metastatic competence .
