sentence
ghrelin was identified in the stomach as an endogenous ligand specific for the growth hormone secretagogue receptor ( ghs-r ) .
ghs-r is found in various tissues , but its function is unknown .
here we show that ghs-r is found in hepatoma cells .
exposure of these cells to ghrelin caused up-regulation of several insulin-induced activities including tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 ( irs-1 ) , association of the adapter molecule growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 with irs-1 , mitogen-activated protein kinase activity , and cell proliferation .
unlike insulin , ghrelin inhibited akt kinase activity as well as up-regulated gluconeogenesis .
these findings raise the possibility that ghrelin modulates insulin activities in humans .
purpose the epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) tyrosine kinase inhibitor zd1839 ( iressa ; astrazeneca pharmaceuticals , alderley park , united kingdom ) is under development as an anticancer agent .
we studied the pharmacodynamic effects of zd1839 on egfr in the skin , an egfr-dependent tissue , in cancer patients participating in zd1839 phase i clinical trials .
patients and methods we studied 104 pre- and/or on-zd1839 therapy ( approximately at day 28 of therapy ) skin biopsies from 65 patients receiving escalating doses of daily oral zd1839 .
we measured zd1839 effects on egfr activation by immunohistochemistry using an antibody specific for the activated ( phosphorylated ) egfr .
effects on receptor signaling ( activated mitogen-activated protein kinase [ mapk] ) , proliferation , p27(kip1) , and maturation were also assessed .
results histopathologically , the stratum corneum of the epidermis was thinner during therapy ( p &lt;.001 ) .
in hair follicles , prominent keratin plugs and microorganisms were found in dilated infundibula .
zd1839 suppressed egfr phosphorylation in all egfr-expressing cells ( p &lt;.001 ) .
in addition , zd1839 inhibited mapk activation ( p &lt;.001 ) and reduced keratinocyte proliferation index ( p &lt;.001 ) .
concomitantly , zd1839 increased the expression of p27(kip1) ( p &lt;.001 ) and maturation markers ( p &lt;.001 ) and increased apoptosis ( p &lt;.001 ) .
these effects were observed at all dose levels , before reaching dose-limiting toxicities .
conclusion zd1839 inhibits egfr activation and affects downstream receptor-dependent processes in vivo .
these effects were profound at doses well below the one producing unacceptable toxicity , a finding that strongly supports pharmacodynamic assessments to select optimal doses instead of a maximum-tolerated dose for definitive efficacy and safety trials .
adoptive transfer of immunity against hepatitis b surface antigen ( hbsag ) was previously shown to facilitate suppression of experimental human hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) expressing hbsag in athymic mice .
we have shown that oral tolerance induces antigen-specific immune suppression of hbsag by feeding hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) antigens .
in the present study we evaluated the effect of oral tolerance induction toward hbv or hcc antigens on the growth of experimental hcc-expressing hbsag in mice .
tolerance induction was induced in mice by 5 oral feedings of 1 microg hbv antigens or hcc-extracted proteins ( 50 microg protein ) before vaccination with recombinant hbsag .
splenocytes ( 2 x 10(6) ) from these mice were transferred to sublethally irradiated athymic balb/c mice previously transplanted subcutaneously with 10(7) human hepatoma hep3b cells .
adoptive transfer of splenocytes immunized toward hbsag prevented tumor growth .
at 4 weeks after splenocyte transplantation , tumor volume and serum alpha-fetoprotein ( afp ) levels in athymic mice transplanted with splenocytes immunized to hbsag were undetectable as compared with 1,048 +/- 738 mm(3) and 2,500 +/- 1,431 ng/ml in recipients of nave splenocytes ( p &lt ; 0.0001 ) .
mice receiving splenocytes tolerized toward hep3b cells , as manifested by reduced serum hbs antibody levels , reduced hbv-specific stimulation index and reduced hbv-specific-ifn gamma spot-forming cells , had early tumor growth evident by elevated afp serum levels , weight loss and mortality , which were suppressed at 6 weeks .
mice transplanted with splenocytes tolerized toward hbv antigens did not have direct evidence of tumor growth .
induction of oral tolerance toward hcc-extracted proteins enabled transient tumor growth in this model .
this effect was mediated through downregulation of the anti-hbv immune response .
the secretion of immunosuppressive factors like transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) by tumor cells has been recognized as one of the mechanisms involved in tumor immunological escape .
this study aimed to examine whether dendritic cell ( dc ) immunization could reverse tgf-beta-induced immunosuppression by simulating the in vivo interaction among infused dcs , host t cells , and tumor-secreted tgf-beta in an in vitro study .
we found that both immature and mature dcs were relatively resistant to tgf-beta .
the addition of tgf-beta to naive human cd4+ t cells , which are required by genetically modified dc to elicit antitumor immunity , resulted in their hyporesponsiveness to dc stimulation in a dose-dependent manner .
when activated by allogeneic dcs in the presence of tgf-beta , cd4+ t cells displayed a reduced capacity to proliferate .
more importantly , activated cd4+ t cells induced by dc stimulation were very sensitive to tgf-beta , and this susceptibility was enhanced by their previous exposure to tgf-beta .
the underlying mechanism was linked to tgf-beta-induced apoptosis of activated t cells .
however , the presence of stimulation from dc or antibodies to cd3 plus cd28 could partly reverse the immunosuppressive effect of tgf-beta on activated cd4+ t cells .
taken together , our results indicate that the efficacy of dc immunization may be impaired by tumor-derived tgf-beta .
to characterize the impact of increased production of tgf-beta in a xenograft model of human breast cancer , tgf-beta-responsive mda-231 cells were genetically modified by stable transfection so as to increase their production of active tgf-beta1 .
compared with control cells , cells that produced increased amounts of tgf-beta proliferated in vitro more slowly .
in vivo , however , tumors derived from these cells exhibited increased proliferation and grew at an accelerated pace .
to evaluate the role of autocrine tgf-beta signaling , cells were also transfected with a dominant-negative truncated type ii tgf-beta receptor ( tbetarii ) .
disruption of autocrine tgf-beta signaling in the tgf-beta-overexpressing cells reduced their in vivo growth rate .
co-inoculation of matrigel with the tgf-beta-overexpressing cells expressing the truncated tbetarii compensated for their diminished in vivo growth capacity , compared with the tgf-beta-overexpressing cells with an intact autocrine loop .
tissue invasion by the tumor was a distinctive feature of the tgf-beta-overexpressing cells , whether or not the autocrine loop was intact .
furthermore , tumors derived from tgf-beta-overexpressing cells , irrespective of the status of the autocrine tgf-beta-signaling pathway , had a higher incidence of lung metastasis .
consistent with the suggestion that tgf-beta's enhancement of invasion and metastasis is paracrine-based , we observed no significant differences among the cell clones in an in vitro invasion assay .
thus , in this experimental model system in vitro assays of cell proliferation and invasion do not accurately reflect in vivo observations , perhaps due to autocrine and paracrine effects of tgf-beta that influence the important in vivo-based phenomena of tumor growth , invasion , and metastasis .
the involvement of prl in regulating monocyte/macrophage functions is suggested by the presence of prl-rs in these cells .
here , we show that prl , though it failed to activate mouse peritoneal resident macrophages ( rms ) , acted as a second signal and activated mouse peritoneal inflammatory macrophages ( ems ) to a tumoricidal state .
the cytotoxicity of mouse tumor-associated macrophages ( tams ) isolated at day 1 of tumor ( ehrlich ascites carcinoma , eac ) growth was enhanced by prl .
however , with progression of tumor growth , tams became nonresponsive to the hormone .
prl-induced killing of p815 target cells by ems and tams was independent of tnf but correlated with the hormone-induced augmentation of no2(-) and o2(-) release in these macrophages .
administration of prl in vivo inhibited eac growth and augmented no2(-) release by tams .
prl synergized with the th1 cytokine ifn-gamma , a known activator of macrophages , in inducing tumor killing and release of no2(-) from ems and tams .
the hormone might activate macrophages at least partially , through the release of ifn-gamma as anti-ifn-gamma blocked ifn-gamma- as well as prl-induced cytotoxicity in ems .
the th2 cytokine il-4 suppressed prl-induced activation of macrophages .
prl induced release of il-12 from ems also , which suggested that the hormone might drive the th1 response through il-12 .
our observations further suggest that prl alone and in synergy with ifn-gamma , released through induction of il-12 , may generate tumoricidal macrophages and thus regulate the antitumor immune response of tumor hosts .
primary fibroblasts respond to activated h-ras(v12) by undergoing premature arrest , which resembles replicative senescence .
this irreversible ' fail-safe mechanism ' requires p19(arf) , p53 and the retinoblastoma ( rb ) family : upon their disruption , ras(v12)-expressing cells fail to undergo senescence and continue to proliferate .
similarly , co-expression of oncogenes such as c-myc or e1a rescues ras(v12)-induced senescence .
to identify novel genes that allow escape from ras(v12)-induced senescence , we designed an unbiased , retroviral complementary dna library screen .
we report on the identification of dril1 , the human orthologue of the mouse bright and drosophila dead ringer transcriptional regulators .
dril1 renders primary murine fibroblasts unresponsive to ras(v12)-induced anti-proliferative signalling by p19(arf)/p53/p21(cip1) , as well as by p16(ink4a) .
in this way , dril1 not only rescues ras(v12)-induced senescence but also causes these fibroblasts to become highly oncogenic .
furthermore , dril1 immortalizes mouse fibroblasts , in the presence of high levels of p16(ink4a) .
immortalization by dril1 , whose product binds the prb-controlled transcription factor e2f1 ( ref. 8 ) , is correlated with induction of e2f1 activity .
correspondingly , dril1 induces the e2f1 target cyclin e1 , overexpression of which is sufficient to trigger escape from senescence .
thus , dril1 disrupts cellular protection against ras(v12)-induced proliferation downstream of the p19(arf)/p53 pathway .
oncostatin m ( osm ) , an interleukin-6 type cytokine , acts via the gp130 signaling receptor to inhibit proliferation and induce differentiation of breast cancer cells .
egf , a mitogen for breast cells , signals via egfr/erbb tyrosine kinase receptors which are implicated in breast cancer pathogenesis .
here we show paradoxically that egf enhanced the osm-induced inhibition of proliferation and induction of cellular differentiation in both estrogen receptor positive and negative breast cancer cells .
this functional synergism was also seen with heregulin but not scf , pdgf or igf-1 , indicating that it was specific to egf-related growth factors .
immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that gp130 was constitutively associated with erbb-2 and erbb-3 .
there was a similar association between the osmrbeta and erbb-2 .
furthermore , egf unexpectedly induced tyrosine phosphorylation of gp130 .
we show that osm induced phosphorylation of stat3 .
both osm and egf activated the p42/44 map kinases , but while the mek inhibitor , pd98059 , ablated the osm-induced inhibition , it only partially ablated the inhibitory effects of osm plus egf .
thus , we have demonstrated that the receptors and signalling pathways of two apparently unrelated growth factors were intimately linked , resulting in an unexpected biological effect .
this provides a new mechanism for generating signalling diversity and has potential clinical implications in breast cancer .
p53 is a tumor suppressor gene that is mutated in many human malignancies , including gastric cancer .
it remains unclear why patients with germ-line p53 mutations ( i.e. , li-fraumeni syndrome ) are not at increased risk for gastric adenocarcinoma , despite the fact that they show a high rate of many other tumors .
furthermore , the precise relationship between germ-line p53 mutations and the response to chronic bacterial infections ( such as helicobacter spp. ) has not been investigated .
to assess the role of germ-line p53 deletions in modulating the progression to gastric cancer , p53(+/-) and wild-type ( wt ) c57bl/6 mice were infected with h. felis .
the gastric pathology and immune response in these two groups of mice were analyzed for up to 15 months postinfection .
the gastric fundus and antrum were evaluated independently using a 0-4 scale to score inflammation , parietal and chief cell loss , mucus metaplasia , and helicobacter colonization .
nonparametric statistical analysis was performed to determine the effects of p53(+/-) , infection status , and postinoculation ( p.i. ) time on inflammation , preneoplastic changes , invasive lesions , and helicobacter colonization. mrna expression for gammaifn , interleukin ( il)-1 , il-10 , and il-4 was quantified by pcr .
sera were also evaluated for h. felis antibody by elisa .
antral inflammation increased significantly with time in infected mice .
there was a significant , protective effect on the development of preneoplastic fundic lesions and invasive carcinoma attributable to the deletion of one p53 allele ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
submucosal invasive foci were observed in 9 of 11 wt-infected mice ranging from 13 to 15 months p.i. ; invasion of adjacent submucosal blood vessels by glandular epithelia also was present in 5 of these mice .
none of these lesions were observed in 33 p53(+/-) mice , infected or not , at any time p.i. p53(+/-) mice had significantly higher helicobacter colonization consistent with a th2 host response .
in sera from wt mice , igg2a , considered a proinflammatory th1 response , continued to rise throughout the 15-month study ( p &lt ; 0.004 ) .
in contrast , igg2a levels of the p53(+/-) mice were 50-60% lower than those of the wt mice at each time point ( p range , &lt;0.012 to 0.002 ) and did not progress in magnitude between 12 and 15 months of chronic h. felis infection ( p = 0.167). mrna levels for gammaifn and il-1 were significantly up-regulated in wt mice infected with h. felis ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) but were slightly elevated or were at background levels in p53(+/-) mice .
il-10 and il-4 mrna expression was not significantly different from control samples .
our results support the hypothesis that germ-line deletion of one p53 allele results in a down-regulated th1 response to gastric helicobacter infection , possibly because of t-cell senescence , which may indirectly protect against the development of gastric cancer and other epithelial-derived neoplasms associated with chronic inflammation .
cellular senescence forms a barrier that inhibits the acquisition of an immortal phenotype , a critical feature in tumorigenesis .
the inactivation of multiple pathways that positively regulate senescence are required for immortalization .
to identify these pathways in an unbiased manner , we performed dna microarray analyses to assess the expression of 20,000 genes in human prostate epithelial cells ( hpecs ) passaged to senescence .
these gene expression patterns were then compared with those of hpecs immortalized with the human papillomavirus 16 e7 oncoprotein .
senescent cells display gene expression patterns that reflect their nonproliferative , differentiated phenotype and express secretory proteases and extracellular matrix components .
a comparison of genes transcriptionally up-regulated in senescence to those in which expression is significantly down-regulated in immortalized hpecs identified three genes : the chemokine brak , doc1 , and a member of the insulin-like growth factor axis , igfbp-3 .
expression of these genes is found to be uniformly lost in human prostate cancer cell lines and xenografts , and previously , their inactivation was documented in tumor samples .
thus , these genes may function in novel pathways that regulate senescence and are inactivated during immortalization .
these changes may be critical not only in allowing cells to bypass senescence in vitro but in the progression of prostate cancer in vivo .
overexpression and amplification of cyclin d1 were investigated by immunohistochemistry and differential polymerase chain reaction ( dpcr ) in 440 formalin-fixed primary breast carcinoma tissues .
overexpression of cyclin d1 was detected in 60% ( 263/440 ) and amplification of cyclin d1 was noted in 27% ( 119/440 ) of the primary breast carcinomas .
molecular analysis demonstrated that cyclin d1 was amplified in 30% ( 7/23 ) of the comedo dcis , 22% ( 9/41 ) of the comedo dcis and 32% ( 13/41 ) of the adjacent invasive ductal carcinomas , 30% ( 82/270 ) of the invasive ductal carcinomas , 27% ( 9/33 ) of the invasive lobular carcinomas , 19% ( 4/21 ) of the colloid carcinomas and 13% ( 2/15 ) of the medullary carcinomas .
cyclin d1 was amplified in 11% ( 2/19 ) of the invasive ductal carcinomas but not in the adjacent non-comedo dcis lesions .
our observation showed that cyclin d1 was strongly positive in 61% ( 14/23 ) of the comedo subtype , 61% ( 11/18 ) of the non-comedo subtype , 59% ( 24/41 ) of the comedo dcis and 63% ( 26/41 ) of the adjacent invasive ductal carcinomas , 53% ( 10/19 ) of the non-comedo dcis and 58% ( 11/19 ) of the adjacent invasive lesions , 58% ( 157/270 ) of the invasive ductal carcinomas , 73% ( 24/33 ) of the invasive lobular carcinomas , 52% ( 11/21 ) of the colloid carcinomas and 27% ( 4/15 ) of the medullary carcinomas .
a significant association was observed between in situ components and adjacent invasive lesions for cyclin d1 expression ( p&lt;0.05 ) and amplification ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
a significant relationship was noted between amplification of cyclin d1 and lymph node metastases ( p&lt;0.05 ) but not with histological grade ( p&gt;0.05 ) , estrogen receptor status ( p&gt;0.05 ) and proliferation index ( ki-67 and pcna ) ( p&gt;0.05 ) .
however , overexpression of cyclin d1 was statistically associated with well differentiated tumors ( p&lt;0.05 ) and estrogen receptor positivity ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
no relationship was seen with nodal status ( p&gt;0.05 ) and proliferation index ( ki-67 and pcna ) ( p&gt;0.05 ) .
these observations suggest that tumors positive for cyclin d1 protein may have features of good prognosis but amplification of cyclin d1 gene could be an indicator of tumors with poor prognostic features .
although majority of the malaysian patients belong to younger age group ( &lt;50 years old ) , amplification and expression of cyclin d1 was not statistically associated with patient age ( p&gt;0.05 ) .
these observations indicate that amplification and up-regulation of cyclin d1 may be independent of patient age .
moreover , overexpression and amplification of cyclin d1 in preinvasive , preinvasive and adjacent invasive lesions , and invasive carcinomas suggest that the gene may play an important role in early and late stages of breast carcinogenesis .
interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) has pleiotropic activities other than its antivirus action , including cell growth inhibition , natural killer ( nk ) cell and cytotoxic t lymphocyte ( ctl ) activation , and angiogenesis inhibitory activity , and these activities are supposed to be involved in its antitumour activity .
however , it has not been completely elucidated which activity is mainly involved in the tumour suppression in vivo .
in this study , we analysed inhibitory mechanisms of endogenous ifn-gamma against b16 melanoma experimental metastasis .
after intravenous injection of tumour cells , tumour deposits in the lungs and liver were increased and life span was shorter in ifn-gamma(-/-) mice , indicating important roles for ifn-gamma in antitumour mechanisms .
interestingly , tumour deposits were not increased in ifn-gamma receptor ( r)(-/- ) mice .
furthermore , only low levels of cell-mediated immunity against the tumour and activation of nk cells were observed , indicating that antimetastatic effects of ifn-gamma is not mediated by host cells .
the survival period of b16 melanoma-bearing ifn-gamma r(-/-) mice was , however , shorter than wild-type mice .
these observations suggest that ifn-gamma prevents b16 melanoma experimental metastasis by directly inhibiting the cell growth , although antitumour host functions may also be involved in a later phase .
p53 activity plays a key role in mammalian cells when they undergo replicative senescence at their hayflick limit .
to determine whether p63 proteins , members of the family of p53-related genes , are also involved in this process , we examined their expression in serially passaged rat embryo fibroblasts .
upon senescence , two truncated deltanp63 proteins decreased in abundance whereas two tap63 isoforms accumulated. 2-d gel analysis showed that the deltanp63 proteins underwent post-translational modifications in both proliferating and senescent cells .
direct binding of deltanp63 proteins to a p53 consensus motif was greater in proliferating cells than senescent cells .
in contrast p63alpha isoforms bound to dna in a p53 dependent manner and this was higher in senescent cells than proliferating cells .
an interaction of p63alpha proteins with sv40 large tumour antigen was also detected and ectopic expression of deltanp63alpha can extend the lifespan of rat embryo fibroblasts .
taken together the results indicate that p63 proteins may play a role in replicative senescence either by competition for p53 dna binding sites or by direct interaction with p53 protein bound to dna .
mesotheliomas are malignant tumors of the pleural and peritoneal membranes which are often associated with asbestos exposure and with simian virus 40 ( sv40 ) infection .
telomerase activity is repressed in somatic cells and tissues but is activated in immortal and malignant cells .
we evaluated telomerase activity in seven primary malignant mesothelioma biopsies and matched lung specimens and 20 mesothelioma cell lines and eight corresponding primary tumor cultures .
all the tumor biopsies , and nearly all primary cell mesothelioma cultures and cell lines were telomerase positive .
the findings in cell lines paralleled those observed in primary cultures in cases where paired samples were available .
next , we found that sv40 , a dna tumor virus present in approximately 50% of mesothelioma biopsies in the usa , induced telomerase activity in primary human mesothelial cells , but not in primary fibroblasts .
telomerase activity became detectable as early as 72 h following wild-type ( strain 776 ) sv40 infection , and a clear dna ladder was detectable 1 week after infection .
the amount of telomerase activity increased during passage in cell culture and appeared to parallel increases in the cellular amounts of the sv40 large t-antigen .
thus , sv40 infection leads to telomerase activity before the infected mesothelial cells become transformed and immortalized .
sv40 infection of human fibroblasts did not cause detectable telomerase activity .
we also determined that the sv40 small t-antigen ( tag ) plays an important role in inducing telomerase activity because this activity was undetectable or minimal in mesothelial cells infected and/or transformed by sv40 tag mutants .
asbestos alone did not induce telomerase activity , and asbestos did not influence telomerase activity in mesothelial cells infected with sv40 .
induction of telomerase activity by sv40 may be related to the very high rate of mesothelial cell immortalization that is characteristically associated with sv40 infection of mesothelial cells .
treatment of cells with the anti-cancer drug camptothecin ( cpt ) induces topoisomerase i ( top1)-mediated dna damage , which in turn affects cell proliferation and survival .
in this report , we demonstrate that treatment of the wild-type hct116 ( wt hct116 ) human colon cancer cell line and the isogenic p53(-/-) hct116 and p21(-/-) hct116 cell lines with a high concentration ( 250 nm ) of cpt resulted in apoptosis , indicating that apoptosis occurred by a p53- and p21-independent mechanism .
in contrast , treatment with a low concentration ( 20 nm ) of cpt induced cell cycle arrest and senescence of the wt hct116 cells , but apoptosis of the p53(-/-) hct116 and p21(-/-) hct116 cells .
further investigations indicated that p53-dependent expression of p21 blocked apoptosis of wt hct116 cells treated with 20 nm , but not 250 nm cpt .
interestingly , blocking of the apoptotic pathway , by z-vad-fmk , in p21(-/-) hct116 cells following treatment with 20 nm cpt did not permit the cells to develop properties of senescence .
these observations demonstrated that p21 was required for senescence development of hct116 cells following treatment with low concentrations of cpt .
aims tumour cell growth results from a disturbance in the balance between the rate of proliferation and cell death .
in this study , proteins involved in the regulation of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis were studied as possible factors responsible for uncontrolled cell growth in colorectal cancer .
methods the expression of proteins involved in these processes was investigated in 48 metastases from patients with colorectal cancer and compared with eight normal colon mucosa samples and 14 primary tumours .
both primary tumours and metastases were obtained from eight patients .
the expression of thymidylate synthase ( ts ) , p53 , retinoblastoma protein ( rb ) , fas receptor , fas ligand , bcl-2 , mcl-1 , bax , and bcl-x was measured using immunohistochemistry .
proliferation was determined by ki67 staining , whereas apoptosis was assessed by m30 immunostaining , which recognises cleaved cytokeratin 18 .
results in the limited number of cases in which paired comparisons were possible , the expression of ts and ki67 was significantly higher in metastases than in the matched primary tumour samples ( p = 0.014 and 0.016 , respectively ) , whereas rb expression was lower in metastases than in primary tumours ( p = 0.024 ) .
fas receptor expression was high in normal mucosa but absent in primary tumours and metastases , whereas the opposite was seen for p53 .
the expression of bax , mcl-1 , and bcl-x in normal mucosa was more apical than that seen in malignant cells , where a more diffuse expression pattern was seen ( p &lt ; 0.04 ) .
apoptosis was more abundant in primary tumours than in metastases .
conclusions these results demonstrate that proliferation and apoptosis are disturbed during colorectal cancer progression , and this is accompanied by loss of rb and fas expression , the accumulation of p53 and ts , and changes in the expression patterns of bax , mcl-1 , and bcl-xl .
it is well known that cell-mediated immunity is suppressed in patients with neoplastic diseases .
we have reported that soluble receptors for interleukin-2 ( sil-2r ) and tumor necrosis factor ( stnf-r1 ) are elevated in the serum of patients with advanced colorectal cancer .
the presence of these soluble receptors and immunosuppressive cytokines , including interleukin-10 ( il-10 ) , might be important in the mechanisms of immunosuppression. cis-diaminedichloroplatinum ( cisplatin ) has been reported to immunomodulate , especially when used in low dose in combination with 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) .
in this study , cisplatin and uft , a form of uracil and tegafur which is a prodrug of 5-fu , were administered with immunomodulator polysaccharide k ( psk ) to ten patients with colorectal cancer , who showed distant metastasis in the liver or lung , and the serum levels of sil-2r and stnf-r1 and the production of gamma-interferon ( gamma-inf ) and interleukin-10 by peripheral blood mononuclear cells were measured .
the serum concentrations of sil-2r and the production of il-10 were reduced ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) after 2 months of treatment .
thus , this combination appeared to have immunomodulative potential in patients with advanced colorectal cancer .
often the use of cytotoxic drugs in cancer therapy results in stable disease rather than regression of the tumor , and this is typically seen as a failure of treatment .
we now show that dna damage is able to induce senescence in tumor cells expressing wild-type p53 .
we also show that cytotoxics are capable of inducing senescence in tumor tissue in vivo .
our results suggest that p53 and p21 play a central role in the onset of senescence , whereas p16(ink4a) function may be involved in maintaining senescence .
thus , like apoptosis , senescence appears to be a p53-induced cellular response to dna damage and an important factor in determining treatment outcome .
senescence limits the proliferative capacity of primary cells in culture .
we describe here a genetic screen to identify genes that allow bypass of this checkpoint .
using retroviral cdna expression libraries , we identify bcl6 as a potent inhibitor of senescence .
bcl6 is frequently activated in non-hodgkin's lymphoma , but its mechanism of action has remained unclear .
bcl6 efficiently immortalizes primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts and cooperates with ras in oncogenic transformation .
bcl6 overrides the senescence response downstream of p53 through a process that requires induction of cyclin d1 expression , as cyclin d1 knockout fibroblasts are specifically resistant to bcl6 immortalization .
we show that bcl6 expression also dramatically extends the replicative lifespan of primary human b cells in culture and induces cyclin d1 expression , indicating that bcl6 has a similar activity in lymphoid cells .
our results suggest that bcl6 contributes to oncogenesis by rendering cells unresponsive to antiproliferative signals from the p19(arf)-p53 pathway .
proliferator-activated receptor gamma ( ppargamma ) is a nuclear receptor , which mainly associates with adipogenesis , but also appears to facilitate cell differentiation or apoptosis in certain malignant cells .
this apoptosis induction by ppargamma is increased by co-stimulation with tumor necrosis factor ( tnf)-alpha-related apoptosis-inducing ligand ( trail ) , a member of the tnf family .
in this study , we investigated the effect of ppargamma on fas-mediated apoptosis in hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) cell lines .
ppargamma was expressed on all seven hcc cell lines and located in their nuclei. 15-deoxy-delta-12,14-prostaglandin j2 ( 15d- pgj2 ) , a ppargamma ligand , inhibited cellular proliferation in hepg2 , sk-hep1 or hle cells , unlike pioglitazone , another ppargamma ligand , which did not have a significant influence on proliferation of these cells .
however , 15d-pgj2 facilitated fas-mediated hcc apoptosis that could not be induced by fas alone .
these results suggest that ppargamma can augment tnf-family-induced apoptosis .
inflammatory events have been associated with senile plaques , one of the pathological hallmarks of alzheimer's disease ( ad ) .
it is believed that aggregated beta-amyloid ( betaa ) proteins , which form the core of these plaques , may be responsible for triggering the inflammatory reaction .
in the present study , the ability of aluminum ( al ) to initiate similar inflammatory events was investigated in a human glioblastoma cell line .
a 6-day exposure to either lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) or aluminum sulfate caused a significant increase in the rate of proliferation of the glioblastoma cells .
both treatments also caused activation of the immune-responsive transcription factor nf-kappab although there were time-related differences .
the levels of secreted cytokines , interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) and tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) were both increased by the lps treatment although exposure to al decreased the secretion of the former while elevating the levels of the latter .
these events may be due to the activation of glial cells and subsequent stress response to either al complexes or lps .
although exposure to either stress factor caused a stimulation of inflammatory markers , there were time-dependent differences in the response .
this may reflect the ability of the cells to discern different stress factors and thus orchestrate an innate immune response profile distinct to each immunogen .
telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein enzyme that functions to maintain telomeres , the terminal dna that protects chromosomal integrity , regulating cellular replicative life span .
telomerase is not expressed in most normal human somatic cells but is active in stabilizing telomeres of certain self-renewing cell populations and most malignant cells , making the enzyme an appealing target for anticancer therapy .
we describe here a novel cross-species approach to telomerase inhibition .
ectopic expression of the human telomerase catalytic reverse transcriptase component in murine cells inhibited endogenous murine telomerase activity .
using this approach , telomerase inhibition in immortal murine fibroblasts resulted in critical telomere shortening , leading to slowed proliferation , abnormal morphology , altered cell cycle , and telomere dysfunction with cytogenetic instability , followed by apoptotic cell death .
subpopulations of two telomerase-inhibited clones escaped widespread apoptosis , showing proliferative recovery in culture despite persistently inhibited telomerase activity with progressive telomere shortening and dysfunction .
this study , by targeting immortal murine cells for telomerase inhibition , demonstrates the importance of telomerase to murine cell immortalization and telomere maintenance .
moreover , the murine model used here should prove useful in further evaluating telomerase inhibition as an anticancer therapy .
a rare immunohistochemical study using 28 surgical sections of human chondrosarcoma revealed that 67.9% of tumour cells had weak ( 10-40% ) or strong ( &gt;40% ) positive immunoreaction for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma .
the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma mrna and protein in human chondrosarcoma cell line oums-27 was also determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunocytochemistry , respectively .
furthermore , the effects of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ligands on cell proliferation and survival were investigated in oums-27 cells .
pioglitazone , a selective ligand for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma , and 15-deoxy-delta(12,14)-prostaglandin j(2) ( 15d-pgj(2) ) , a putative endogenous ligand for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma , inhibited the proliferation of oums-27 cells in a dose-dependent manner .
the mechanism of cytotoxic effects of 15d-pgj(2) was via apoptosis as shown by dna fragmentation using tunel stain and dna ladder formation , and by ultrastructural analysis using transmission electron microscopy .
flow-cytometric analysis using annexin-v-fluorescein and propidium iodide detected the early change of apoptosis , as well as necrosis of oums-27 cells at 4 h after co-incubation with 15d-pgj(2) .
these results suggest that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of chondrosarcoma , and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ligands , especially 15d-pgj(2) , may be of therapeutic value in the treatment of human chondrosarcoma .
notch signaling controls cell fate decisions of hematopoietic progenitors by inhibiting certain steps of differentiation and inducing either self-renewal or differentiation toward lymphoid or myeloid lineages .
in addition , truncated notch1 alleles could be associated with 10% of all cases of human t lymphoblastic leukemia and , when introduced into mouse bone marrow stem cells , cause t-cell neoplasms .
however , functional links between the abundant expression of intact notch1 and oncogenesis are still lacking .
here we show that notch1 is highly expressed in b- and t-cell-derived tumor cells of hodgkin and anaplastic large cell lymphoma .
we demonstrate a novel mechanism for the oncogenic capacity of notch1 by showing that the interaction between intact notch1 on tumor cells and its ligand jagged1 dramatically induces proliferation and inhibition of apoptosis in vitro .
we further provide evidence that in hodgkin and anaplastic large cell lymphoma , jagged1 is expressed in malignant and in bystander cells colocalizing with notch1-positive tumor cells .
notch1 signaling may therefore be activated in tumor cells by jagged1 through homotypic or heterotypic cell-cell interactions , and it seems likely that these interactions contribute to lymphomagenesis in vivo .
thus , our data suggest that activated notch1 signaling plays an important role in the pathobiology of hodgkin and anaplastic large cell lymphoma and that it might be a potential new target for treatment .
uvb from solar radiation is both an initiating and promoting agent for skin cancer .
we have found that primary human keratinocytes undergo an apoptotic response to uvb .
to determine whether these responses are altered during the course of immortalization , we examined markers of apoptosis in primary human foreskin keratinocytes ( hfk ) transduced with either a retroviral vector expressing the e6 and e7 genes of hpv-16 or with empty vector alone ( lxsn-hfk ) .
whereas lxsn-hfk as well as early passage keratinocytes expressing hpv-16 e6 and e7 ( p7 e6/7-hfk ) were both moderately responsive to uvb irradiation , late passage-immortalized keratinocytes ( p27 e6/7-hfk ) were exquisitely sensitive to uvb-induced apoptosis .
after exposure to uvb , enhanced annexin v-positivity and internucleosomal dna fragmentation were observed in p27 e6/7-hfk compared with either lxsn- or p7 e6/7-hfk .
caspase-3 fluorometric activity assays as well as immunoblot analysis with antibodies to caspase-3 and poly(adp-ribose) polymerase revealed elevated caspase-3 activity and processing at lower uvb doses in p27 e6/7-hfk compared with lxsn- or p7 e6/7-hfk .
in addition , the caspase inhibitor devd-cho reduced the apoptotic response and increased survival of all three hfk types .
immunoblot analysis revealed that caspase-8 was activated in all three cell types , but caspase-9 was only activated in p27 e6/7-hfk .
cell cycle analysis further showed that only p27 e6/7-hfk exhibit g(2)/m accumulation that is enhanced by uvb treatment .
this accumulation was associated with a rapid down-regulation of bcl-2 in these cells .
the immortalization process subsequent to the expression of hpv e6 and e7 may therefore determine uvb sensitivity by switching the mode of apoptosis from a caspase-8 to a bcl-2-caspase-9-mediated pathway of apoptosis .
prostate cancer ( pca ) is the most common histological malignancy and the second leading cause of cancer deaths among north american men .
there has been considerable interest in the chemopreventative properties of selenium .
in this study , we assessed whether selenium inhibits cell growth and associated cell cycle regulatory proteins .
human pca cells ( lncap , pc3 , pc3-ar2 , and pc3-m ) were incubated with and without selenium ( seleno-dl-methionine , 150 microm ) for 24 , 48 , and 72 h .
cells were fixed and stained with propidium iodide for flow cytometry analysis .
in parallel experiments , total protein was extracted , immunoprecipitated with cyclin e antibody , and analyzed by western blot for the expression of cell cycle markers .
treatment with selenium caused g1 arrest and an 80% reduction in the s phase of lncap with no effect on pc3 .
however , pc3 cells transfected with the androgen receptor ( pc3-ar2 ) exhibited a g2/m arrest and a marked reduction ( 57% ) in the s phase during cell cycle progression .
in the analysis of cell cycle regulatory molecules , selenium-treated cells demonstrated a significant induction of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors cip1/p21 and kip1/p27 .
these data suggest that selenium possesses strong antiproliferative properties in regard to human pca .
this effect appears to be dependent on the presence of a functioning androgen receptor .
this provides a theoretical basis for phase iii studies of selenium in pca prevention .
interactions of cd70 , a tumor necrosis factor-related cell surface ligand and its receptor , cd27 , are thought to play an important role for t- , b- , and natural killer-cell activation .
however , ligation of cd27 can also induce apoptosis .
human glioblastoma is paradigmatic for cancer-associated immunosuppression .
we identified cd70 as a radioinducible gene in u87 mg glioma cells .
a screening of a panel of human glioma cell lines revealed that 11 of 12 cell lines expressed cd70 mrna and protein .
two human neuroblastoma cell lines did not express cd70 .
cd70 mrna expression was enhanced by irradiation in 8 of 12 glioma cell lines in a p53-independent manner .
no alteration in cd70 expression was observed after glioma cell exposure to cytotoxic drugs such as lomustine .
cd70 protein was also detected by immunocytochemistry in 5 of 12 glioblastomas and 3 of 4 anaplastic astrocytomas in vivo .
cd27 expression was not detected in any glioma cell line , and there was no evidence for autocrine or backward signaling of the cd70 system in human glioma cells .
unexpectedly , cd70 expressed on glioma cells did not increase the immunogenicity of glioma cells in vitro .
in contrast , cd70-positive glioma cells induced apoptosis in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmcs ) in a cd70-dependent manner .
neutralization of cd70 expressed on glioma cells prevented apoptosis and enhanced the release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha in cocultures of glioma cells and pbmcs .
the effects of cd70-expressing glioma cells on pbmcs were mimicked by agonistic cd27 antibodies .
conversely , the shedding of cd27 by pbmcs was identified as a possible escape mechanism from glioma cell-induced cd70-dependent apoptosis .
thus , induction of b-cell and t-cell apoptosis via interactions of cd70 expressed on glioma cells and cd27 expressed on b and t cells may be a novel way for the immune escape of malignant gliomas .
the t(10;11)(p12;q23) chromosomal translocation in human acute myeloid leukemia results in the fusion of the mll and af10 genes .
the latter codes for a novel leucine zipper protein , one of many mll fusion partners of unknown function .
in this report , we demonstrate that retroviral-mediated transduction of an mll-af10 complementary dna into primary murine myeloid progenitors enhanced their clonogenic potential in serial replating assays and led to their efficient immortalization at a primitive stage of myeloid differentiation .
furthermore , mll-af10-transduced cells rapidly induced acute myeloid leukemia in syngeneic or severe combined immunodeficiency recipient mice .
structure/function analysis showed that a highly conserved 82-amino acid portion of af10 , comprising 2 adjacent alpha-helical domains , was sufficient for immortalizing activity when fused to mll .
neither helical domain alone mediated immortalization , and deletion of the 29-amino acid leucine zipper within this region completely abrogated transforming activity .
similarly , the minimal oncogenic domain of af10 exhibited transcriptional activation properties when fused to the mll or gal4 dna-binding domains , while neither helical domain alone did .
however , transcriptional activation per se was not sufficient because a second activation domain of af10 was neither required nor competent for transformation .
the requirement for alpha-helical transcriptional effector domains is similar to the oncogenic contributions of unrelated mll partners enl and ell , suggesting a general mechanism of myeloid leukemogenesis by a subset of mll fusion proteins , possibly through specific recruitment of the transcriptional machinery .
the retinoic acid receptor beta2 ( rarbeta2 ) protein is a putative tumor suppressor that inhibits proliferation and can induce apoptosis when introduced into breast , cervical , lung , and pancreatic cancer cell lines .
to determine if rarbeta2 suppresses proliferation of mammary-derived cancer cells in vivo , we transduced mda-mb-435 breast cancer cells with the lxsn retroviral vector containing rarbeta2 and implanted lxsn vector- or rarbeta2-transduced cells into the mammary fat pads of nude and severe combined immune deficiency ( scid ) mice .
we analyzed the xenografts for several tumor parameters , including tumor size , inflammation , vascularity , mitoses , tumor recurrence at the primary site following resection , and metastases .
we found that 19 of 52 mice inoculated with vector-transduced cells developed metastases in multiple organs while only one of 55 mice receiving rarbeta2-transduced cells displayed evidence of metastases ( p &lt ; 0.000001 , combined experiments , two-tailed fisher's exact test ) .
moreover , rarbeta2-tumor cell recipient mice had a lower incidence of post-resection tumor recurrence ( 8/55 vs. 25/52 , p = 0.0004 ) , 34% less necrosis ( in three of four experiments , p = 0.001 ) , and 39% fewer mitoses in tumor tissue ( p &lt ; 0.000001 ) .
our findings suggest that rarbeta2 may play a role in inhibiting the metastatic cascade in a mouse mammary gland xenograft tumor model and is a potential candidate for therapeutic intervention in human breast cancer .
the yeast sir2 protein mediates chromatin silencing through an intrinsic nad-dependent histone deacetylase activity .
sir2 is a conserved protein and was recently shown to regulate lifespan extension both in budding yeast and worms .
here , we show that sirt1 , the human sir2 homolog , is recruited to the promyelocytic leukemia protein ( pml ) nuclear bodies of mammalian cells upon overexpression of either pml or oncogenic ras ( ha-rasv12 ) .
sirt1 binds and deacetylates p53 , a component of pml nuclear bodies , and it can repress p53-mediated transactivation .
moreover , we show that sirt1 and p53 co-localize in nuclear bodies upon pml upregulation .
when overexpressed in primary mouse embryo fibroblasts ( mefs ) , sirt1 antagonizes pml-induced acetylation of p53 and rescues pml-mediated premature cellular senescence .
taken together , our data establish the sirt1 deacetylase as a novel negative regulator of p53 function capable of modulating cellular senescence .
aim the goal of this study was to characterize the afp receptor , its possible signal transduction pathway and its proliferative functions in human hepatoma cell line bel 7402 .
methods cell proliferation enhanced by afp was detected by mtt assay , 3h-thymidine incorporation and s-stage percentage of cell cycle analysis .
with radioactive labeled 125i-afp for receptor binding assay ; camp accumulation , protein kinase a activity were detected by radioactive immunosorbent assay and the change of intracellular free calcium ( ca2+i ) was monitored by scanning fluorescence intensity under tcs-nt confocal microscope .
the expression of oncogenes n- ras , p 53 , and p21( ras ) in the cultured cells in vitro were detected by northern blotting and western blotting respectively .
results it was demonstrated that afp enhanced the proliferation of human hepatoma bel 7402 cell in a dose dependent fashion as shown in mtt assay , ( 3)h-thymidine incorporation and s-phase percentage up to 2-fold .
two subtypes of afp receptors were identified in the cells with kds of 1.3 x 10(-9)mol.l(-1) and 9.9 x10(-8)mol .
( -1)l respectively .
pretreatment of cells with afp resulted in a significant increase ( 625% ) in camp accumulation .
the activity of protein kinase a activity were increased up to 37.5 , 122.6 , 73.7 and 61.2% at treatment time point 2 , 6 , 12 and 24 hours .
the level of intracellular calcium were elevated after the treatment of alpha-fetoprotein and achieved to 204% at 4 min .
the results also showed that afp(20mg.l(-1)) could upregulate the expression of n- ras oncogenes and p 53 and p21( ras ) in bel 7402 cells .
in the later case,the alteration were 81.1%(12h) and 97.3%(12h) respectively compared with control .
conclusion these results demonstrate that afp is a potential growth factor to promote the proliferation of human hepatoma bel 7402 cells .
its growth-regulatory effects are mediated by its specific plasma membrane receptors coupled with its transmembrane signaling transduction through the pathway of camp-pka and intracellular calcium to regulate the expression of oncogenes .
purpose astrocytoma arises in the central nervous system as a tumor of great lethality , in part because of the invasive potential of the neoplastic cells that are able to release extracellular matrix-degrading enzymes .
furin convertase activates several precursor matrix metalloproteases involved in the breakdown of the extracellular matrix .
in the present study inhibition of furin was achieved by gene transfer of alpha(1)-antitrypsin portland ( pdx ) cdna .
experimental design this furin inhibitor was transfected into two tumorigenic astrocytoma cell lines .
the inhibitory effect was evaluated using in vivo tumorigenicity , invasion , and proliferation assays , as well as by investigating impairment of furin substrate processing .
results expression of pdx prevented the s.c. growth of the transfected cells .
invasion assays demonstrated that pdx-transfected cells exhibited a reduced invasive ability in vitro and in vivo .
furthermore , s.c. growth of pdx transfectant xenotransplants showed a significant reduction in size that coincided with a significant decrease of the in vitro doubling time and of the in vivo cell proliferation ability .
additional studies showed that the furin substrates insulin-like growth factor ir , transforming growth factor beta and membrane type 1-matrix metalloprotease were not activated in pdx-expressing astrocytoma cells .
conclusions pdx expression in astrocytoma cells demonstrated a direct mechanistic link between furin inhibition , and decreased astrocytoma proliferation and invasive ability .
because furin inhibition inhibits both invasiveness and cell growth in astrocytoma , furin should be considered a promising target for glioblastoma therapy .
elevated insulin-like growth factor binding protein-related protein 1 ( igfbp-rp1 ) mrna in senescent human mammary epithelial cells suggested that the igfbp-3 gene product may inhibit cell proliferation .
to test this hypothesis , we used a retroviral vector to express igfbp-rp1 cdna in the igfbp-rp1-deficient mcf-7 breast cancer cell line .
compared with control vector-transduced cells , cumulative cell numbers for igfbp-rp1-transduced polyclonal or clonal cell cultures were reduced by 39 and 74% , respectively , after 1 week .
medium conditioned by igfbp-rp1-producing cultures reduced cumulative cell numbers in parental mcf-7 cultures by 20% compared with medium from cultures of a control vector-transduced cell line .
nuclear fragmentation analysis and cell proliferation assays completed in the presence of the pan-caspase inhibitor benzyloxycarbonyl-val-ala-asp(ome)-fluoromethylketone excluded apoptosis as the responsible mechanism .
the percentage of cells containing senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity was doubled compared with control cell cultures .
flow cytometry analysis indicated that twice as many noncycling cells were present in the igfbp-rp1-transduced mcf-7 cell cultures compared with controls .
these findings indicate that igfbp-rp1 is an inhibitor of mcf-7 breast cancer cell proliferation and may act via a cellular senescence-like mechanism .
we have modelled multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells ( ecs ) by overexpressing the catalytic subunit of human telomerase ( htert ) , together with sv40 t antigen ( sv40t ) and oncogenic n-ras .
transfection with htert alone , led to the immortalization of two out of three cultures of bone marrow-derived ecs ( bmecs ) .
one htert transduced bmec culture underwent a long proliferative lag before resuming proliferation .
bmecs transfected with htert alone were functionally and phenotypically normal .
bmecs transfected with sv40t ( bmsvts ) had an extended lifespan , but eventually succumbed to crisis .
bmsvts exhibited a partially transformed phenotype , demonstrating growth factor independence , altered antigen expression and forming tiny , infrequent colonies in vitro .
transduction of bmsvts with htert resulted in immortalization of 4 out of 4 cultures .
bmsvts immortalized with htert formed large colonies in vitro and small transient tumours in vivo .
bmecs co-expressing sv40t , htert and n-ras exhibited an overtly transformed phenotype ; forming very large colonies with an altered morphology and generating rapidly growing tumours in vivo .
these investigations demonstrate transformation of human ecs to an overtly malignant phenotype .
this model will be useful for understanding mechanisms underlying vascular and angiogenic neoplasias , as well as for testing drugs designed to curtail aberrant ec growth .
the association between acute myeloid leukaemia ( aml ) and the aberrant expression of hoxa9 is evidenced by ( 1 ) proviral activation of hoxa9 and meis1 in bxh-2 murine aml , ( 2 ) formation of the chimeric nup98-hoxa9 transactivator protein as a consequence of the t(7;11) translocation in human aml , and ( 3 ) the strong expression of hoxa9 and meis1 in human aml .
in mouse models , enforced retroviral expression of hoxa9 alone in marrow is not sufficient to cause rapid aml , while co-expression of meis1 and hoxa9 induces rapid aml .
in contrast , retroviral expression of nup98-hoxa9 is sufficient to cause rapid aml in the absence of enforced meis1 expression .
previously , we demonstrated that hoxa9 could block the differentiation of murine marrow progenitors cultured in granulocyte-macrophage colony-simulating factor ( gm-csf ) .
these progenitors lacked meis1 expression , could not proliferate in stem cell factor ( scf ) , but could differentiate into neutrophils when switched into granulocyte colony-simulating factor ( g-csf ) .
ectopic expression of meis1 in these hoxa9 cells suppressed their g-csf-induced differentiation , permitted proliferation in scf , and therein offered a potential explanation of cooperative function .
because meis1 binds n-terminal hoxa9 sequences that are replaced by nup98 , we hypothesized that nup98-hoxa9 might consolidate the biochemical functions of both hoxa9 and meis1 on target gene promoters and might evoke their same lymphokine-responsive profile in immortalized progenitors .
here we report that nup98-hoxa9 , indeed mimicks hoxa9 plus meis1 coexpression - it immortalizes myeloid progenitors , prevents differentiation in response to gm-csf , il-3 , g-csf , and permits proliferation in scf .
unexpectedly , however , nup98-hoxa9 also enforced strong transcription of the cellular hoxa9 , hoxa7 and meis1 genes at levels similar to those found in mouse aml's generated by proviral activation of hoxa9 and meis1 .
using hoxa9(-/-) marrow , we demonstrate that expression of hoxa9 is not required for myeloid immortalization by nup98-hoxa9 .
rapid leukaemogenesis by nup98-hoxa9 may therefore result from both the intrinsic functions of nup98-hoxa9 , as well as of those of coexpressed hox and meis1 genes .
background : previously , we have observed that highly unsaturated dietary ( n-3 ) fatty acids inhibit cell proliferation in conjunction with stimulation of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein ( igfbp)-6 secretion in caco-2 cells , a human colon carcinoma cell line .
methods : to test the converse hypothesis that inhibition of endogenous igfbp-6 secretion stimulates caco-2 cell proliferation , cells were transfected with the antisense igfbp-6 expression construct or pcdna3 vector only , and single colonies resistant to g418 sulfate were isolated .
results : our initial studies indicated that three antisense clones grew faster and produced less igfbp-6 than two pcdna3 clones , so antisense igfbp-6 #5 and pcdna3 #8 were selected for further detailed analysis .
both the control and antisense clones grew in serum-free medium reaching a plateau density at day eight .
however , the antisense clone grew at a rate faster than that of the control and reached a final density that was 31 +/- 3% higher than the control .
northern blot , ligand blot and immunoblot analyses revealed that accumulation of igfbp-6 mrna and concentrations of igfbp-6 peptide produced by the antisense clone were decreased by 80-90% compared to the control .
the doubling times of the antisense and control clones were 21.9 +/- 0.4 and 24.8 +/- 0.3 h ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) , respectively .
exogenous igf-i and igf-ii ( 0.2-200 nmol/l ) stimulated proliferation of both the control and antisense clones in a dose-dependent manner , but the relative potency and efficacy of igf-ii was higher in the antisense clone compared to the control .
these results indicate that suppression of igfbp-6 secretion correlates with an increase in the basal rate of caco-2 cell growth .
conclusions : our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that igfbp-6 inhibits cell growth by binding to endogenously produced igf-ii , thereby preventing igf-ii from interacting with the igf-i receptor to stimulate cellular proliferation by an autocrine mechanism .
direct experimental evidence implicates telomere erosion as a primary cause of cellular senescence .
using a well characterized model system for breast cancer , we define here the molecular and cellular consequences of adriamycin treatment in breast tumor cells .
cells acutely exposed to adriamycin exhibited an increase in p53 activity , a decline in telomerase activity , and a dramatic increase in beta-galactosidase , a marker of senescence .
inactivation of wild-type p53 resulted in a transition of the cellular response to adriamycin treatment from replicative senescence to delayed apoptosis , demonstrating that p53 plays an integral role in the fate of breast tumor cells treated with dna-damaging agents .
stable introduction of htert , the catalytic protein component of telomerase , into mcf-7 cells caused an increase in telomerase activity and telomere length .
treatment of mcf-7-htert cells with adriamycin produced an identical senescence response as controls without signs of telomere shortening , indicating that the senescence after treatment is telomere length-independent .
however , we found that exposure to adriamycin resulted in an overrepresentation of cytogenetic changes involving telomeres , showing an altered telomere state induced by adriamycin is probably a causal factor leading to the senescence phenotype .
to our knowledge , these data are the first to demonstrate that the mechanism of adriamycin-induced senescence is dependent on both functional p53 and telomere dysfunction rather than overall shortening .
the relationship between thyroid hormone ( triiodothyronine , t(3) ) and breast cancer is unclear .
we studied the effect of the c-erba/tr alpha proto-oncogene encoding a functional t(3) receptor ( tr alpha 1 ) , of its ligand t(3) , and of its retroviral , mutated counterpart , the v-erba oncogene , on the proliferation capacity of nontumorigenic mammary epithelial cells ( eph4 ) .
we found that eph4 cells expressing ectopically tr ( eph4 + tr alpha 1 ) or v-erba ( eph4 + v-erba ) proliferated faster than parental eph4 cells that contained low levels of endogenous tr .
t(3) inhibited dna synthesis and proliferation in eph4 + tr alpha 1 cells but not eph4 or eph4 + v-erba cells .
the study of cell-cycle genes showed that t(3) decreased cyclin d1 rna and protein levels in eph4 + tr alpha 1 cells .
in addition , t(3) downregulated the expression of t1 , a gene that is overexpressed in human breast adenocarcinomas and is induced by mitogens , serum , and several oncogenes and cytokines .
inhibition of the t1 gene by t(3) required both de novo mrna and protein synthesis .
furthermore , t(3) abolished the induction of t1 by the tumor promoter 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate and inhibited the activity of an activation protein 1-dependent promoter ( -73-col-cat ) in eph4 + tr alpha 1 cells , suggesting that interference with activation protein 1 transcription factor plays a part in the inhibition of the t1 gene .
our results showed that t(3) reduced the proliferation of mammary epithelial cells and inhibited the expression of cyclin d1 and t1 genes .
urokinase plasminogen activator receptor ( upar ) activates alpha5beta1 integrin and erk signaling , inducing in vivo proliferation of hep3 human carcinoma .
here we demonstrate that egfr mediates the upar/integrin/fibronectin ( fn ) induced growth pathway .
its activation is ligand-independent and does not require high egfr , but does require high upar expression .
only when upar level is constitutively elevated does egfr become alpha5beta1-associated and activated .
domain 1 of upar is crucial for egfr activation , and fak links integrin and egfr signaling .
inhibition of egfr kinase blocks upar induced signal to erk , implicating egfr as an important effector of the pathway .
disruption of upar or egfr signaling reduces hep3 proliferation in vivo .
these findings unveil a mechanism whereby upar subverts ligand-regulated egfr signaling , providing cancer cells with proliferative advantage .
we have recently developed surface-shielded transferrin-polyethylenimine ( tf-pei)/dna delivery systems that target reporter gene expression to distant tumors after systemic application .
in the present study , we used surface-shielded tf-pei/dna complexes for delivering the gene for a highly potent cytokine , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnfalpha ) .
tnfalpha is known for its ability to induce hemorrhagic tumor necrosis and tumor regression .
however , the therapeutic application of tnfalpha is hampered by its high systemic toxicity dictating the need to target tnfalpha activity to the tumor .
systemic application of surface-shielded tf-pei complexes with the tnfalpha gene resulted in preferential expression of tnfalpha in the tumor without detectable tnfalpha serum levels , in contrast to the application of nontargeted complexes .
tumor-targeted tnfalpha gene delivery induced pronounced hemorrhagic tumor necrosis and inhibition of tumor growth in three murine tumor models of different tissue origins , neuro2a neuroblastoma , metha fibrosarcoma , and m-3 melanoma , with complete tumor regressions observed in the metha model .
no systemic tnf-related toxicity was observed due to the localization of the tnfalpha activity to the tumor .
targeted gene therapy may be an attractive strategy applicable to highly active , yet toxic , molecules such as tnfalpha .
clinical data and biological samples were prospectively collected in 42 children with lymphoproliferative disease ( lpd ) secondary to organ/bone marrow transplant-related immunosuppression ( 30 : 11 liver , 10 heart/lung , 8 kidney and 1 bone marrow ) , other drug-induced immunosuppression ( 2 ) , congenital immunodeficiency ( 8 ) or human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv)-related immune dysfunction ( 2 ) .
ages ranged from 10 months to 17 years and there were 15 girls .
pathology was centrally reviewed and showed polymorphic features in 5 cases , monomorphic in 23 , mixed pattern in 5 patients and 9 other types .
using the revised european-american classification of lymphoid neoplasms , 5 were b lymphoblastoid , 24 were high-grade b and 14 were other subtypes .
using the pittsburgh classification , 9 were lymphadenopathic , 10 were systemic , 25 were lymphomatous and , with the murphy grouping for non-hodgkin's lymphoma ( nhl ) , 10 were localized and 32 non-localized .
twenty-four out of 38 evaluable cases were epstein-barr virus positive .
thirty-five patients were evaluable for clonality ; 24 were monoclonal and 11 were polyclonal .
reduced immunosuppression in solid organ transplant patients resulted in resolution of disease in 14/24 , which was sustained in 11 .
nineteen patients received chemotherapy , 14/18 evaluable responded , which was sustained in 8 cases .
seven out of 29 solid organ transplant and 10/13 other immune-deficient patients died .
in the largest group of patients , solid organ transplants , no significant clinical or biological characteristics that predicted outcome were identified .
in the transplant group close monitoring of response during reduction in immunosuppression is essential and the early use of b nhl chemotherapy may be effective .
epidemiological studies have indicated that females may be at greater risk of smoking associated lung cancer compared with males .
several lines of biochemical evidence support these observations .
a possible role of circulating steroid hormones in the etiology of lung cancer has been hypothesized .
in the present paper , we have studied the expression of the estrogen receptors ( er)-alpha and er beta in histologically normal human lung tissue and lung tumor cell lines .
relative er mrna levels were measured by reverse transcriptase-pcr and normalized to the level of expression of the glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene ( gapdh ) .
in lung tissue , an er alpha transcript was found at various levels in 38 out of 46 cases ( 83% ) .
er beta was expressed in all cases .
the ers were expressed at similar levels in females and males , and the levels of er alpha and er beta mrna were significantly related ( p&lt;0.0001 ) .
compared with the lung tissue , er expression levels were lower in 16 human lung tumor cell lines and two immortalized human bronchial epithelial cell lines .
five of the tumor cell lines ( 31% ) expressed detectable levels of er alpha and both of the immortalized cell lines showed a weak er alpha expression level .
all cell lines expressed the er beta .
the lung cell lines beas-2b and db354 showed significantly reduced cell proliferation in response to tamoxifen and a minor increased growth in response to 17 beta-estradiol .
in conclusion , er genes are abundantly expressed in both histologically normal human lung and lung tumor cell lines .
this indicates a possible role of ers in lung carcinogenesis .
the beneficial effect of yoghurt consumption on health and on the improvement of the mucosal immune system is well established , as is the diet-associated risk of colon cancer .
in an experimental model in balb/c mice we demonstrated that yoghurt added to the diet for 10 consecutive days , with the procedure repeated each 10 days for 6 months , inhibited the development of a colorectal carcinoma induced by 1,2 dimethylhydrazine ( dmh ) .
the immunoregulatory mechanisms involved in the inhibition of tumour growth by yoghurt were also examined in these studies .
we determined b lymphocytes iga(+) and igg(+) , as well as cd4(+) and cd8(+) t cells in the large intestine .
we measured cellular apoptosis and the cytokines tnf-alpha , ifn-gamma and il-10 .
an increase in the number of iga(+) ( p&lt;0.01 ) was observed , but not in igg(+) ( p&lt;0.01 ) , or in the cd4(+) population ( p&lt;0.01 ) in the mice treated with dmh and yoghurt .
while in the group with the carcinogen there was an enhancement in the igg(+) b cells ( p&lt;0.01 ) and cd8(+) t cells ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
yoghurt increased the number of apoptotic cells and induced ifn-gamma and tnf-alpha cytokine release , their production being regulated by an increase in il-10 ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
we demonstrated that yoghurt may exert antitumour activity by a decrease in the inflammatory immune response mediated by iga(+) increase , apoptosis induction and il-10 release .
ovarian steroids are one of the strongest risk factors for breast cancer .
sex hormone-binding globulin ( shbg ) binds and transports sex steroids in the blood , regulating their bioavailable fraction and access to target cells .
it can also inhibit the estradiol-induced proliferation of breast cancer cells through its membrane receptor .
three coding-region polymorphisms , which lead to an amino acid change , have been reported .
we studied the influence of these three polymorphisms on breast cancer risk in three different populations : polish familial breast cancer cases , 27% of them carrying a brca1/brca2 mutation , nordic familial and sporadic breast cancer cases .
the reported g to a polymorphism in exon 1 was not found in the 423 analyzed samples .
instead , we found a c to t transition causing an arg to cys amino acid change within the same codon in one polish breast cancer patient and her daughter .
both of them were heterozygotes for the exon 8 g to a polymorphism as well .
they were diagnosed for bilateral breast cancer and carried a brca1 mutation ( 5382insc ) .
analysis of the tumor samples showed that they had lost the wild-type allele both at exons 1 and 8 of the shbg gene .
analysis of the other polish samples showed no correlation of the exon 8 polymorphism to breast cancer , bilateral breast cancer , brca1/brca2 mutations or age at diagnosis .
no association of the exon 8 polymorphism with breast cancer in the nordic familial or sporadic cases was found .
the c to t polymorphism located in exon 4 was rare in all the studied populations ( overall allele frequency 0.011 ) .
however , in each of the study populations there was a trend for a lower variant allele frequency in cancer cases than in controls .
variant allele frequency in all the breast cancer cases was significantly lower than in all the controls ( chi(2) = 5.27 , p-value 0.02 ; odds ratio = 0.23 , 95% confidence interval 0.05-0.84 ) .
purpose current antibody-based immunotherapeutic approaches under evaluation for breast carcinoma are limited in target scope .
for example , administration of the human epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) antibody , alone or in combination with a chemotherapeutic drug , is thought to primarily inhibit tumor cell proliferation .
the aim of this study was to assess the effects of a combined blockade designed to inhibit tumor growth by inhibition of proliferation rate and the proinflammatory effects of interleukin ( il ) 8 .
experimental design a human breast carcinoma cell line that produces high levels of il-8 was injected s.c. into severe combined immunodeficient mice .
il-8 has been reported to augment the progression of some human tumors ; thus , we used a human il-8 antibody , abxil8 , in combination with anti-egfr , abxegfr , to inhibit the metastasis of mda231 tumors .
results whereas anti-il-8 alone had no appreciable antimetastatic effect , the combination of abxil8 significantly enhanced the antitumor effects of abxegfr , resulting in greater survival of scid tumor-bearing mice .
this effect on survival was correlated with decreased metastatic spread and decreased tumor size in mice receiving both antibodies .
intriguingly , in vitro studies indicate that this antibody combination markedly inhibited matrix metalloproteinase activity associated with mda-231 cells to a greater degree than either antibody alone .
conclusion combined administration of these two human antibodies using growth factor blockade in conjunction with chemokine blockade may thus provide a more effective approach for treatment of metastatic human breast carcinoma .
the hox11 gene encodes a homeodomain transcription factor that is essential for spleen development during embryogenesis .
hox11 is also leukaemogenic , both through its clinical association with childhood t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia , and its ability to immortalize other haematopoietic cell lineages experimentally .
to examine the pathological role of hox11 in tumorigenesis , we constitutively expressed hox11 cdna in j2e murine erythroleukaemic cells , which are capable of terminal differentiation .
enforced hox11 expression was found to induce a profound alteration in j2e cellular morphology and differentiation status .
our analyses revealed that hox11 produced clones with a preponderance of less differentiated cells that were highly adherent to plastic .
morphologically , the cells overexpressing hox11 were larger and had decreased globin levels , as well as a reduction in haemoglobin synthesis in response to erythropoietin ( epo ) .
immunocytochemical analysis confirmed the immature erythroid phenotype imposed by hox11 , with clones transfected with hox11 demonstrating expression of the c-kit stem cell marker , while retaining epo receptor expression .
taken together , these results show that hox11 alters erythroid differentiation , favouring a less mature progenitor-like stage .
this supports the notion that disrupted haematopoietic cell differentiation is responsible for pre-leukaemic immortalization by the hox11 oncoprotein .
the aim of this study was to extend our previous observations on the soy modulation of biochemical parameters in 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene ( dmba)-induced rat mammary tumors , by simultaneously investigating the expression of estrogen receptor-alpha ( eralpha ) , estrogen receptor-beta ( erbeta ) , progesterone receptor ( pr ) , apoptosis , neu , and markers of cell proliferation , such as proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( pcna ) by immunohistochemistry .
the percentage of eralpha positive tumors was 65.8% in masses from control animals , and significantly dropped to 36.8% in tumors from soy treated rats ( p=0.010 ) .
the percentage of erbeta positive tumors was 70.3% in masses from control animals vs. 50.0% in tumors from soy exposed animals ( p=0.066 ) .
moreover , the percentage of cases which were both eralpha and erbeta positive was significantly lower ( 17.6% ) in soy treated than in control animals ( 51.3% ) ( p=0.006 ) .
the percentage of pr positive tumors was 34.2% in control animals vs. 2.6% in tumors from soy treated rats ( p=0.0006 ) .
there were no statistically significant differences in the percentage of tumors positively stained for neu , apoptosis , or pcna , in control vs. soy treated rats .
however , when analyzing the reciprocal correlation among the different biochemical parameters we showed that , in treated animals , the majority of eralpha positive tumors ( 91.7% ) were also pcna positive ( p=0.036 ) .
the median percentage of pcna positivity was significantly higher in eralpha positive than in eralpha negative tumors ( 25 vs. 5% ) ( p=0.0031 ) .
moreover , an association was found between pcna and neu status since all neu positive tumors were also pcna positive ( p=0.011 ) .
the vast majority of breast cancers are carcinomas that arise from mammary epithelial cells ( mecs ) .
one of the key early events in tumorigenic transformation is the ability of cells to overcome replicative senescence .
however , the precise genetic changes that are responsible for this event in mecs is largely unknown .
here , we report that bmi-1 , originally identified as a c-myc cooperating oncoprotein , can bypass senescence , extend the replicative life span , and immortalize mecs .
furthermore , bmi-1 was overexpressed in immortal mecs and several breast cancer cell lines .
overexpression of bmi-1 in mecs led to activation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( htert ) transcription and induction of telomerase activity .
telomerase induction by bmi-1 was an early event in the extension of the replicative life span and immortalization .
bmi-1 was not overexpressed in htert-immortalized mecs , suggesting that bmi-1 functions upstream of htert .
although , c-myc has been reported to induce telomerase in mecs , bmi-1 appeared to act independently of c-myc binding sequences in the htert promoter .
deletion analysis of the bmi-1 protein suggested that the ring finger , as well as a conserved helix-turn-helix-turn domain , were required for its ability to induce telomerase and immortalize mecs .
these data suggest that bmi-1 regulates telomerase expression in mecs and plays a role in the development of human breast cancer .
immunosuppression has been related to the incidence of tumor apparition , including endocrine tumors .
the intrasplenic ovarian tumor ( luteoma ) is a typical benign endocrine tumor that develops under high gonadotropin stimulation and , from the immunological perspective , is located in a critical organ involved in immune response .
to establish if immunosuppression could alter the development of this experimental tumor , the effects of cyclosporin a ( csa ) and dexamethasone ( dex ) were evaluated .
after surgery , tumor-bearing and sham animals were kept without treatment for 4 weeks ; thereafter , they were distributed into csa ( 25 mg/kg ) , dex ( 0.1 mg/kg ) , or vehicle ( 75:25 castor oil:ethanol ) groups and were injected on alternate days for 50 days .
body weight was evaluated weekly .
animals were sacrificed after a jugular vein blood sample was obtained .
thymi were weighed .
tumors were measured and placed in formaline for histological studies .
serum luteinizing hormone ( lh ) , follicle-stimulating hormone ( fsh ) , prolactin ( prl ) , and estradiol were measured by radioimmunoassay .
hematological parameters were determined .
csa induced a significant decrease in survival rates both in tumor-bearing and sham animals ( p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
dex significantly impaired weight increase in both groups of animals .
csa induced a significant weight loss in sham animals , not observed in tumor-bearing animals .
dex induced thymus weight loss in both groups , whereas csa induced thymus weight loss only in sham animals .
only dex induced a decrease in lymphocyte number in both groups .
csa induced an increase in monocyte number only in sham animals .
treatments did not alter lh , fsh , or estradiol , whereas prl was increased by csa only in sham rats .
neither dex nor csa induced any significant variations in tumor volume , nor did they alter tumor histology .
in addition , no visible metastases or alterations in other organs were observed .
we conclude that , though immunological parameters were altered by the treatments , immunosuppressor drugs did not condition tumor development .
in addition , tumors secrete one or more factor/s that counteract csa effect .
the knowledge of alterations in regulation of autophagy during tumorigenesis may also help our understanding of its normal control .
we established an experimental system and reported recently that autophagic capacity , measured as the cell's capability of increasing segregation ( formation of autophagosomes ) and subsequent degradation of cytoplasmic quanta were highly increased in premalignant nodule cells 6 months after initiation by azaserine in the rat pancreas in vivo .
in the present study , we followed changes of these autophagic functions throughout the tumour progression .
we carried out electron-microscopic morphometrical analysis of the expansion of autophagic vacuole compartment and subcompartments induced by vinblastine ( an in vivo segregation enhancer ) , as well as their regression upon segregation-inhibitor cycloheximide post-treatment .
premalignant tumour samples were taken at month 5 , month 8 ( nodules ) , month 10 and month 15 ( adenomas ) after initiation .
in all these stages , a highly increased and varying autophagic capacity was found compared with the host tissue .
the basal ( non-stimulated ) autophagic compartment was measurable only at month 5 and month 15 , and its regression upon cycloheximide was consistent with increased basal autophagic activity .
compared with the host tissue , autophagic capacity profoundly decreased in the differentiated and anaplastic adenocarcinomas at month 20 , when , surprisingly , cycloheximide was unable to inhibit segregation .
our conclusion is that down-regulation of the cycloheximide sensitive segregation and a partly compensatory up-regulation of an alternative pathway of segregation might occur along with malignant transformation .
dimethyl sulfoxide ( dmso ) , a well-known differentiation inducer in several myeloid cells , also induces a reversible g(1) arrest in many cell lines .
we recently showed that dmso induces a g(1) phase arrest in chinese hamster ovary ( cho ) cells , by restoring contact inhibition and preventing high density-dependent apoptosis .
cho cells are frequently used in cell biology and mutagenesis studies due to their good growth capacity and ease of manipulation but are very difficult to synchronize by serum starvation since they detach from monolayers when they reach confluence .
in this study we investigated the possibility of using dmso to reversibly synchronize cho cells in the g(1) phase of the cell cycle and analysed whether toxic effects follow the arrest using growth curve , sister chromatid exchange and micronuclei assays .
we carried out a kinetic analysis of the arrest by dmso and re-entry into the cell cycle after drug release by cytofluorimetric analysis of dna content and bromodeoxyuridine incorporation .
we show that cho cells are efficiently and reversibly arrested in g(1) by dmso in concentrations ranging between 1 and 2% .
in our experiments , &gt;90% of cells grown for 96 h in presence of the drug were arrested in g(1) and synchronously re-entered s phase approximately 8-12 h after release .
furthermore , expression levels of p27 were down-regulated during g(1) progression and cyclin d3 and e expression patterns were similar to those observed after serum starvation .
no detectable cytotoxicity or genetic damage were induced in g(1) released cells as revealed by the tests employed .
our results show that dmso is a very powerful inducer of g(1) synchronization in cho cells without detectable cytotoxic or genetic effects in cell populations released from g(1) arrest .
dmso synchronization represents a model system in which to analyse protein activities regulating g(1) progression and investigate the response of g(1) cells to mutagen treatments .
the widespread use of synthetic musk fragrances and the resultant presence of these substances and their metabolites in the aquatic environment ( as well as their accumulation in human adipose tissue ) raises the question of whether musk fragrances display endocrine and in particular estrogenic activity .
a variety of musk fragrances were tested using the e-screen assay .
a statistically significant increase in proliferation rate of human mcf-7 breast cancer cells was detected for two nitro musks ( musk xylene , musk ketone ) , a major metabolite of musk xylene ( p-amino-musk xylene ) , and the polycyclic musk fragrance ahtn .
this indicates that these substances do , in fact , demonstrate estrogenic activity .
coincubation with the antiestrogen tamoxifen showed that the increase in proliferation rate by the musk fragrances is estrogen receptor-mediated .
it must be noted , however , that the effective estrogenic strength and estrogenic potency were low compared to 17 b-estradiol .
the naturally occurring fragrance muscone from the group of macrocyclic musk fragrances , a group of substances that have not yet been well characterized in respect to their toxicological properties , has also been shown to be weakly estrogenically active in vitro .
e-screen analysis showed that the nitro musk metabolites o-amino musk xylene and 2-amino-mk , the macrocyclic musk fragrances ethylene brassylate , ethylene dodecandioate , and cyclopentadecanolide , are not estrogenically active .
mutations in the nf2 tumor suppressor gene lead to tumor formation in humans and mice and cellular overproliferation phenotypes in drosophila .
the nf2 encoded protein , merlin , shares close sequence similarity in its amino terminus to members of the band 4.1 family of membrane-cytoskeletal linkers .
similarities between merlin and this family suggest a role for merlin in regulating cytoskeletal function .
however , the mechanism of the tumor suppressing activity of merlin is not yet understood .
mutational analysis of nf2 in flies has led to the identification of a dominant-negative allele , which harbors mutations in the amino terminus of the protein .
here , we report that expression of a murine analog of this amino-terminal mutant of nf2 leads to complete transformation of nih3t3 fibroblasts in culture .
cells that express this nf2 mutant allele display disruptions of the actin cytoskeleton , lack of contact inhibition of growth , and anchorage-independent growth .
finally , fibroblasts that express this mutant nf2 allele form tumors when injected into nude mice .
p107 links to cyclin a/cdk2 ( cyclin-dependent kinase 2 ) and cyclin e/cdk2 that are important cell cycle regulators .
however , p107 expression remains unclear in almost all kinds of human solid tumours .
to clarify the expression of p107 in colorectal tumours , 22 normal mucosae , 9 hyperplastic polyps , 60 adenomas , 198 primary carcinomas , 21 lymph-nodal metastases , and 10 hepatic metastases were immunohistochemically stained for p107 , cyclin a , cyclin e , cdk2 and ki67 .
results were measured using labelling indices ( lis). p107 lis surpassed the highest value in normal tissues in six of nine hyperplastic polyps , 54 of 60 adenomas , 144 of 198 primary cancers , 13 of 21 nodal foci and three of 10 hepatic foci. p107 lis also apparently rose from normal through hyperplasia and adenoma to early carcinoma .
however , they declined in liver-metastatic foci , and in primary cancers showing large size , mucinous type , venous invasion , lymphatic invasion , poorly differentiated type , deep invasion , lymph-nodal metastasis , hepatic metastasis or advanced stage .
low p107 lis were also linked to a poor survival , particularly in stage-iii patients .
as the p107 li gradually rose , the cdk2 ( in primary cancers only ) , cyclin a , cyclin e and ki67 lis were elevated concurrently-in both adenomas and primary cancers .
thus , in colorectal tumours , p107 expression rises abnormally and gradually during carcinogenesis and then falls during invasion , and thereby probably perturbs the cell-cycle control and promotes carcinogenesis and invasion .
clinically , reduced p107 may indicate a poorer prognosis .
cellular senescence , initially observed during subculturing of normal diploid fibroblasts , can also be induced by chronic exposure to cellular stress , such as uv light , oxidative stress , or dna damaging agents .
here we demonstrate that stable expression of an activated form of mkk6 ( mkk6ee ) , a direct activator of the stress-induced p38(hog) mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway , is sufficient for inducing features of senescence including a flattened , vacuolated , and irregular morphology , staining for acidic beta-galactosidase , and accumulation of age-associated pigments .
consistent with the senescent phenotype , p38(hog) activation induces a g(1) cell cycle arrest , which is permanent and irreversible after 4 days .
mkk6ee also induces biochemical features of senescence in a p38-dependent manner , including enhanced expression of p21(cip) , a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor .
microarray analysis of mkk6ee cells showed a pattern of gene expression noted previously in werner syndrome and senescent fibroblasts .
these results define p38(hog) as an intracellular pathway that activates a senescence checkpoint in tumor cells and may play a role in ras- or stress-induced senescence .
malignant mesothelioma ( mm ) still remains a therapeutic and diagnostic problem to which new therapeutic perspectives are being continuously tried and tested .
three different primary cultures ( mmge-1 , mes mm 98 , and mes 1 ) and one immortalized cell line ( msto 211 h ) of human mm were studied in order to evaluate the her-2/neu expression .
three out of four cell lines showed a different level of c-erbb-2 expression , the highest being detected on the msto 211 h cell line ( fibroblastic phenotype ) , whereas mmge-1 resulted negative .
the effect of the anti-her-2/neu antibody ( trastuzumab ) alone , and in combination with cisplatin ( cddp ) at different doses ( ranging from 0.1 to 100 microg/ml ) , was studied on all the c-erb-2 positive cell lines .
trastuzumab was able to inhibit cell proliferation in a time-dependent manner , with growth inhibition also obtained at low concentrations ( 0.1-1 microg/ml ) .
combined treatment with trastuzumab ( 10 microg/ml ) and cddp ( 1 microg/ml ) showed synergism .
our results were encouraging , and suggest a rationale for further investigations in a clinical setting .
pd-1 is a receptor of the ig superfamily that negatively regulates t cell antigen receptor signaling by interacting with the specific ligands ( pd-l ) and is suggested to play a role in the maintenance of self-tolerance .
in the present study , we examined possible roles of the pd-1/pd-l system in tumor immunity .
transgenic expression of pd-l1 , one of the pd-l , in p815 tumor cells rendered them less susceptible to the specific t cell antigen receptor-mediated lysis by cytotoxic t cells in vitro , and markedly enhanced their tumorigenesis and invasiveness in vivo in the syngeneic hosts as compared with the parental tumor cells that lacked endogenous pd-l .
both effects could be reversed by anti-pd-l1 ab .
survey of murine tumor lines revealed that all of the myeloma cell lines examined naturally expressed pd-l1 .
growth of the myeloma cells in normal syngeneic mice was inhibited significantly albeit transiently by the administration of anti-pd-l1 ab in vivo and was suppressed completely in the syngeneic pd-1-deficient mice .
these results suggest that the expression of pd-l1 can serve as a potent mechanism for potentially immunogenic tumors to escape from host immune responses and that blockade of interaction between pd-1 and pd-l may provide a promising strategy for specific tumor immunotherapy .
the metastatic spread of malignant neoplasms is associated with active migration of cancer cells .
the migration of neoplastic cells during the metastatic process may be affected by various extracellular factors , including chemoattractants , haptotactic signals , electric fields , substrate anisotropy , and cell-to-cell contacts .
we examined the effect of homotypic collisions and heterotypic interactions with normal human skin fibroblasts on the motile activity of walker carcinosarcoma cells .
it was found that walker carcinosarcoma cells moving in a dense population neither show contact inhibition of movement when colliding with one another nor increase their motile activity as a result of contact stimulation of motility .
on the other hand , when plated onto the surface of aligned fibroblasts , walker carcinosarcoma cells migrated mainly along the long axes of underlying fibroblasts as a result of contact guidance .
the directional character of movement ( but not the speed of migration ) of walker carcinosarcoma cells on the surface of aligned fibroblasts was completely effaced by rgd-containing synthetic peptide at a concentration of 1 mg/ml but not by 5 microm verapamil ( selective voltage-gated calcium channel inhibitor ) or 10 microm gadolinium chloride ( non-specific blocker of mechanosensitive ion channels ) .
the suppression of directional character of migration of tumour cells by rgd-containing peptide was associated with the decrease in the amount of fibronectin macromolecules attached to fibroblasts .
this suggests that alignment and anisotropic distribution of fibronectin macromolecules may be responsible for contact guidance of tumour cells moving on the surface of fibroblasts .
the g protein-coupled human gastrin-releasing peptide receptor ( hgrp-r ) is frequently found aberrantly expressed in human cancers of the colon , stomach , and lung , and its ligand-specific activation has been implicated in cell proliferation and differentiation .
here , we demonstrated hgrp-r activation stimulated sustained cyclic amp response element binding protein ( creb ) phosphorylation and transactivation in duodenal cancer cells through a protein kinase c and partially p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase-dependent pathway .
in contrast , intracellular calcium , erk1/2 , protein kinase a , and pi3 kinase were not involved .
this novel signaling mechanism might be of importance for regulation of creb-dependent gene expression in human cancer expressing functional hgrp-r .
a rat colonic adenocarcinoma was implanted subcutaneously ( s.c. ) in nude mice .
after 7 days , the animals were divided into different groups .
two groups received subcutaneous injections twice daily with 3 or 6 micro g/kg body weight octreotide , galanin and serotonin .
three groups were respectively treated with 20 , 30 , and 40 micro g/kg body weight of the previously mentioned bioactive substances .
control group received only saline solution in the same fashion as treated animals .
the treatment lasted for 5 days .
the tumour volume and weight , the relative density of blood vessels , of tumour necrotic tissue , of apoptotic nuclei and of proliferating nuclei were measured .
apoptosis was detected by in situ labelling of nuclear dna fragmentation according to tunel method , and proliferation by immunocytochemistry .
morphometry was done with the classical stereological point-counting method .
food consumption , animal weight , faeces weight and its water content were measured for 3 days before and after treatment .
triple therapy with 3 and 6 micro g/kg body weight had no effect on any of the parameters measured , except in reducing the relative volume density of tumour blood vessels .
treatment with 20 , 30 and 40 micro g/kg body weight of the previously mentioned bioactive substances reduced the tumour volume , the relative volume density of blood vessels and increased the relative volume density of necrotic tissue and of apoptotic nuclei ( in the 20 micro g group ) .
however , there was no difference between treated mice and controls regarding the relative volume density of proliferating nuclei .
there was no statistical difference between treated animals regarding food consumption , body weight , faeces weight and its water content before and during treatment .
the present study confirms that triple therapy with octreotide , galanin and serotonin causes regression of a rat colon carcinoma .
it further showed that optimum treatment dose is 20 micro g/kg body weight of each bioactive substance .
moreover , this therapy regime does not show apparent side effects in the experiments carried out on mice .
exposure to ultraviolet b ( uvb ) radiation ( 280-320 nm ) is the primary etiologic factor associated with the development of basal cell carcinoma ( bcc ) .
the outgrowth of these keratinocyte-derived skin lesions is enhanced by the ability of uvb to impair an immune response that would otherwise eliminate them .
studies in a range of inbred mouse strains as well as mast cell-depleted mice reconstituted with mast cell precursors support a functional link between histamine-staining dermal mast cells and the extent of susceptibility to uvb-induced systemic immunomodulation .
humans , like mouse strains , display variations in dermal mast cell prevalence .
in a study of danish and south australian bcc patients and control subjects , one 4-mm punch biopsy of non-sun-exposed buttock skin was sampled from each participant .
this skin site was investigated to avoid any changes in mast cell prevalence caused by sun exposure .
two sections ( 4 microm ) per biopsy were immunohistochemically stained for detection of histamine-containing dermal mast cells .
computer-generated image analysis evaluated dermal mast cell prevalence in both sections by quantifying the total number of mast cells according to the total dermal area ( expressed as mast cells per square millimeter ) .
this technique enabled us to detect heterogeneity of dermal mast cell prevalence in buttock skin between individuals and provided evidence of an association between high dermal mast cell prevalence and bcc development in two diverse populations .
we hypothesize that mast cells function in humans , as in mouse strains , by initiating immunosuppression following uv irradiation and , thereby , allowing a permissive environment for the development of bcc .
thus , a high dermal mast cell prevalence as demonstrable in buttock skin is a significant predisposing factor for development of bcc in humans .
objective overexpression of epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) in glioblastoma multiforme ( gbm ) secondary to egfr gene amplification is associated with a more aggressive tumor phenotype and a worse clinical outcome .
the purpose of this study was to analyze whether blocking this receptor with the anti-egfr chimeric monoclonal antibody c225 would decrease proliferation and increase apoptosis in gbm cells .
methods egfr expression and amplification were analyzed for seven human gbm cell lines .
these lines were then exposed to different concentrations of c225 for 48 hours , 72 hours , and 7 days , after which time cytotoxicity , apoptosis , and vascular endothelial growth factor expression were assessed in vitro .
two egfr-amplified human gbm were implanted in the flanks of nude mice , and the animals received c225 twice per week intraperitoneally for 5 weeks .
tumor volumes and survival times were compared with those of sham-treated mice .
results egfr gene amplification was demonstrated in three of the primary gbm lines .
c225 treatment produced significant cytotoxicity in all three egfr-amplified gbm lines , but not in unamplified lines .
flow cytometry demonstrated increased apoptosis in c225-treated , egfr-amplified gbm lines , but not in unamplified lines .
there was a decrease in vascular endothelial growth factor expression in all gbm lines with exposure to c225 .
tumor-bearing mice treated with c225 experienced significant inhibition of tumor growth as well as a 200% increase in median survival .
conclusion blocking egfr in gbm cells that overexpress this receptor significantly changes tumor cell biology by promoting apoptosis while decreasing proliferation and vascular endothelial growth factor expression .
this approach holds great promise for the treatment of patients with gbms .
glycolysis is known to be the primary energy source in most cancer cells .
we investigated here the effect of clotrimazole ( 1-(alpha-2-chlorotrityl)imidazole ) , the antifungal azole derivative , which was recently recognized as calmodulin antagonist , on the levels of glucose 1,6-bisphosphate and fructose 1,6-bisphosphate , the two stimulatory signal molecules of glycolysis , and on atp content and cell viability in ll/2 lewis lung carcinoma cells and ct-26 colon adenocarcinoma cells .
we found that clotrimazole induced a significant , dose- and time-dependent reduction in the levels of glucose 1,6-bisphosphate , fructose 1,6-bisphosphate , atp , and cell viability .
these findings suggest that clotrimazole causes a reduction in glycolysis and atp levels , which eventually leads to cell destruction after 3 h of treatment .
since cell proliferation was also reported to be inhibited by calmodulin antagonists , this substance is most promising agent in treatment of cancer by inhibiting both cell proliferation and the glycolytic supply of atp required for cancer cell growth .
the immune system of vertebrates is able to detect bacterial dna based on the presence of unmethylated cpg motifs .
we examined the therapeutic potential of oligodeoxynucleotides with cpg motifs ( cpg odn ) in a colon carcinoma model in balb/c mice .
tumors were induced by s.c. injection of syngeneic c26 cells or renca kidney cancer cells as a control .
injection of cpg odn alone or in combination with irradiated tumor cells did not protect mice against subsequent tumor challenge .
in contrast , weekly injections of cpg odn into the margin of already established tumors resulted in regression of tumors and complete cure of mice .
the injection site was critical , since injection of cpg odn at distant sites was not effective .
mice with two bilateral c26 tumors rejected both tumors upon peritumoral injection of one tumor , indicating the development of a systemic immune response .
the tumor specificity of the immune response was demonstrated in mice bearing a c26 tumor and a renca tumor at the same time .
mice that rejected a tumor upon peritumoral cpg treatment remained tumor free and were protected against rechallenge with the same tumor cells , but not with the other tumor , demonstrating long term memory .
tumor-specific cd8 t cells as well as innate effector cells contributed to the antitumor activity of treatment .
in conclusion , peritumoral cpg odn monotherapy elicits a strong cd8 t cell response and innate effector mechanisms that seem to act in concert to overcome unresponsiveness of the immune system toward a growing tumor .
it is still difficult to decide on the treatment modalities for advanced esophageal carcinoma when the prognostic factors of t4 esophageal cancer are not fully understood .
in this article , we report that among 71 patients with t4 thoracic esophageal cancer , 49 underwent esophagectomy , 9 had curative resection ( r0 group ) , and 40 had palliative resection ( r1/2 group ) .
a total of 22 patients had palliative treatments : bypass in 5 ( bypass group ) , gastrostomy or jejunostomy in 6 ( stoma group ) , and radiochemotherapy alone in 11 ( nonoperation group ) .
clinicopathologic characteristics were retrospectively investigated .
treatment-related deaths occurred in 7 ( 10% ) : none in r0 , 3 ( 8% ) in r1/2 , 3 ( 60% ) in bypass , and 1 ( 17% ) in stoma group .
swallowing was improved in 50 ( 70% ) patients : 9 ( 100% ) in r0 , 30 ( 75% ) in r1/2 , 1 ( 20% ) in bypass , 3 ( 50% ) in stoma , and 7 ( 64% ) in the nonoperation group .
one- , two- , and three-year overall survival rates were 56% , 22% , and 22% in the r0 group and 35% , 19% and 6% in the r1/2 group , respectively ( p = 0.19 ) .
in the bypass , stoma , and nonoperation groups , none survived 1.6 years .
the factors influencing the survival rate of the 49 patients undergoing esophagectomy were grade of lymph node metastasis , amount of perioperative blood transfusion , lymph vessel , and blood vessel invasion .
among these , independent prognostic factors for survival were amount of blood transfusion ( -6 units vs. -7 units , p &lt;0.0001 ) and grade of lymph node metastasis [ none- or peritumoral [ lymph nodes adjacent to the main tumor or at a nearby location ( &lt;3 cm ) from the tumor ] metastasis vs. more distant metastasis [ lymph nodes at a distant location ( &gt ; 3 cm) ] , p = 0.016 ] .
bypass and stoma operation neither prolonged the survival nor improved the difficulty of swallowing compared with radiochemotherapy alone .
esophagectomy can achieve the best improvement of swallowing and the longest survival with an acceptable mortality rate .
esophageal carcinoma patients with t4 disease and distinct metastasis in the lymph nodes at a distant location ( &gt;3 cm ) from the primary tumor may not benefit from an esophageal resection .
a key issue in the development of the central nervous system ( cns ) is understanding the molecular mechanisms regulating cell number .
the present study examines the role of cd81 ( previously known as tapa , the target of the antiproliferative antibody ) in the control of brain size and glial cell number .
cd81 is a member of the tetraspanin family of proteins .
this group of small membrane proteins is associated with the regulation of cell migration and mitotic activity .
glial cells express cd81 , and antibodies directed against this protein suppress the mitotic activity of cultured cells .
in this study , we examine the effects of the cd81 -/- mutation on the cns of mature mice .
these mice have extremely large brains , as much as 30% larger than the brains of wild-type ( +/+ ) littermates .
the increase in brain weight is accompanied by an increase in the number astrocytes and microglia , whereas the number of neurons and oligodendrocytes in the cd81 -/- animals appears to be normal .
when the cd81 -/- mutation is placed on different genetic backgrounds , there is a remarkable range in the penetrance of the null allele phenotype , demonstrating that the mutation can be affected by modifier loci .
this work provides support for the role of cd81 in the regulation of astrocyte and microglial number , perhaps by regulating cell proliferation by a contact inhibition-dependent mechanism .
we used cdna-based genomic microarrays to examine dna copy number changes in a panel of prostate tumors and found a previously undescribed amplicon on chromosome 17 containing a novel overexpressed gene that we termed prostate cancer gene 17 ( prc17 ) .
when overexpressed in 3t3 mouse fibroblast cells , prc17 induced growth in low serum , loss of contact inhibition , and tumor formation in nude mice .
the prc17 gene product contains a gtpase-activating protein ( gap ) catalytic core motif found in various rab/ypt gaps , including rn-tre .
similar to rn-tre , we found that prc17 protein interacts directly with rab5 and stimulates its gtp hydrolysis .
point mutations that alter conserved amino acid residues within the prc17 gap domain abolished its transforming abilities , suggesting that gap activity is essential for its oncogenic function .
whereas prc17 is amplified in 15% of prostate cancers , it is highly overexpressed in approximately one-half of metastatic prostate tumors .
the potent oncogenic activity of prc17 is likely to influence the tumorigenic phenotype of these prostate cancers .
hormone-independent tumor growth and metastasis are associated with increased mortality in human prostate cancer .
in this study , we evaluate a potential role for ligand-mediated activation of her2 receptor tyrosine kinase in androgen-independent prostate cancers .
her2 , her3 , and epidermal growth factor receptor were detected in the androgen-independent cell line 22rv1 .
heregulin stimulation results in receptor phosphorylation and cell proliferation that is inhibited by increasing concentrations of anti-her2 recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody ( rhumab ) 2c4 .
furthermore , inhibition of tumor growth was observed in xenografts derived from 22rv1 cells when treated with rhumab 2c4 in a dose-dependent manner .
these studies provide a framework , both in vitro and in vivo , to examine the molecular mechanisms of ligand-driven her2 activation in androgen-independent tumorigenesis .
we have previously reported the frequent occurrence of bile duct invasion by liver metastases from colorectal cancer .
we found that patients with macroscopic intrabiliary cancer growth survive longer after hepatectomy than those without this feature .
in the present study , we analyzed the clinicopathological features of primary colorectal cancer showing macroscopic intrabiliary extension of liver metastases .
we reviewed 217 patients who underwent initial hepatic resection for colorectal liver metastasis between 1992 and 1998 , and analyzed the corresponding primary colorectal cancers clinicopathologically .
microscopic bile duct invasion was found in 89 of 217 cases ( 40.6% ) and , of these cases , 23 ( 10.6% ) had macroscopic intrabiliary extension .
histological sections of the corresponding primary colorectal cancer were available in eight ( group a ) of these 23 cases .
these were compared with 20 cases , selected randomly , of colorectal cancer that did not show bile duct invasion and were diagnosed as liver metastases .
these patients underwent hepatectomy during the same period as group a and were used as a control ( group b ) .
the histology of the primary tumors revealed well-differentiated adenocarcinoma in 100% of group a and in 25% of group b. the average maximum diameter of the primary tumor was 5.32 cm in group a and 3.61 cm in group b. venous invasion was detected in 25% of group a and in 90% of group b ( p &lt ; 0.01 ) , while the incidences of lymphatic vessel invasion and lymph node metastases were similar between the groups .
these data suggest that macroscopic intrabiliary extension could be a good indicator of a unique subgroup of colorectal cancers showing less aggressive features even though they develop liver metastases .
careful histological evaluation is important even for metastatic tumors .
antithymocyte globulin is widely used before haematopoietic transplantation with hla-matched unrelated donors or mismatched relatives to prevent rejection and graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) .
however , optimal dosage is still under debate .
thirty-one consecutive children , mainly with haematological malignancies , were transplanted in a single institution with such donors , selected by hla-a -b compatibility by serology and drb1* by dna typing .
antithymocyte globulin ( thymoglobuline ; sangstat ) was infused at days -3 , -2 , -1 .
total dosage varied : 16 patients received a median of 7.5 mg/kg ( 2.5 to 10.5 : low-dose group ) , and 15 a median of 15.5 mg/kg ( 14.4 to 19.4 : high-dose group ) .
post-transplant gvhd prophylaxis consisted of cyclosporine , short-course methotrexate and steroids .
cd3(+) , cd4(+) and cd19(+) cell reconstitution was slower in the high-dose group .
median time to reach 100 cd4(+) cells was 8 months vs 4 months ( p = 0.03 ) .
median time to normal cd19(+) cells was 16 months vs 8 months ( p = 0.01 ) .
cd16(+)cd56(+) and cd8(+) cell reconstitution was similar .
nine patients in the high-dose group and two in the low-dose group experienced life-threatening opportunistic infections ( p = 0.009 ) .
although obtained from a limited number of patients , our data suggest that a higher pre-graft dose of antithymocyte globulin may negatively influence immune reconstitution .
human fibroblasts undergo cellular senescence after a finite number of divisions , in response to the erosion of telomeres .
in addition to being terminally arrested in the cell cycle , senescent fibroblasts express genes that are normally induced upon wounding , including genes that remodel the extracellular matrix .
we have identified the novel zinc finger protein apa-1 , whose expression increased in senescent human fibroblasts independent of telomere shortening .
extended passage , telomerase-immortalized fibroblasts had increased levels of apa-1 as well as the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p16 .
in fibroblasts , apa-1 was modified by the ubiquitin-like protein sumo-1 , which increased apa-1 half-life , possibly by blocking ubiquitin-mediated degradation .
overexpression of apa-1 did not cause cell cycle arrest ; but , it induced transcription of the extracellular matrix-remodeling genes mmp1 and pai2 , which are associated with fibroblast senescence .
mmp1 and pai2 transcript levels also increased in telomerase-immortalized fibroblasts that had high levels of apa-1 , demonstrating that the matrix-remodeling phenotype of senescent fibroblasts was not induced by telomere attrition alone .
apa-1 was able to transactivate and bind to the mmp1 promoter , suggesting that apa-1 is a transcription factor that regulates expression of matrix-remodeling genes during fibroblast senescence .
telomerase activity , a cardinal requirement for immortalization , is a crucial step in the development of cancer and has been studied in many kinds of malignant tumours for clinical diagnostic and/or prognostic utilities .
using a pcr-based trap assay , we investigated telomerase activity in 8 adenomatous polyps , 9 dysplastic polyps , and in 36 paired cancer-normal mucosa specimens , one liver and one spleen metastasis from patients resected for sporadic colorectal cancer .
telomerase was absent or very low in normal mucosa and in adenomatous polyps .
dysplastic polyps and adenocarcinoma samples showed telomerase activity , with higher levels in cancer tissues compared to dysplastic lesions .
a high telomerase activity was shown to be associated with late-staged cancers and metastasis , providing arguments supporting the role of telomerase not only in the development but also in the progression of colorectal carcinoma .
moreover , telomerase evaluation may help to confirm the malignant transformation in polypoid colorectal lesions with different levels of dysplastic alterations .
to search for potential biomarkers used to monitor the process of immortalization , we investigated the relative level of telomerase activity and other immortal phenotypes in the shee esophageal epithelial cell line .
this human fetal esophageal epithelial cell line , induced by human papilloma virus ( hpv ) 18 e6e7 , was continually propagated over 100 passages .
fourteenth passage cells ( shee14 ) were cultured in a flask with a serum-free medium and continually cultured to the 30th passage ( shee30 ) .
cells of shee14 , shee20 and shee30 were examined according to cell morphology , cell cycle , apoptosis , contact-inhibition growth , anchorage- dependency , dose-dependency to epithelial growth factors ( egf ) , telomerase activity and tumorigenicity .
the shee14 cells exhibited good differentiation with contact-inhibition and anchorage-dependent growth .
the shee20 cells exhibited increase of senescent and apoptotic cells , and difficulty in propagation .
the shee30 cells exhibited a higher proliferative index and some undifferentiated cells , with weakened contact-inhibition and anchorage-dependent growth .
the telomerase was activated in cells of shee30 , but not in shee14 and shee20 cells .
the different response to dose-dependency to egf was not statistically different in shee14 and shee30 .
three groups of cells displayed lack of tumor formation in nude mice .
compared with shee14 and shee20 , shee30 cells were of immortalized status with immortal phenotype , which consisted of telomerase activity , increase of cell proliferation , weakened contact-inhibition and anchorage-dependent growth , dose dependency to egf and lack of tumor formation .
from passage 14 to 30th passage , shee cells went through cellular senescence , apoptosis and immortalization .
with a view toward diagnostic and biological aspects , telomerase activity is a crucial step and a cardinal requirement for immortalization .
the telomerase activity and other immortal phenotypes are potential markers for monitoring the process of immortalization .
nur77 is an orphan receptor .
although nur77 affects cell proliferation and apoptosis through its capability of binding to a variety of response elements and regulating their transactivation activities , the intrinsic function of nur77 is not yet fully understood ; in particular , its regulation of apoptosis and proliferation has been characterized as cell type-dependent and agent context-dependent .
in this study , nur77 can be seen to regulate apoptosis via its expression and translocation , rather than its transactivation activity in gastric cancer cells .
nur77 was constitutively expressed in bgc-823 cells .
the tetradecanoylphorbol-1,3-acetate ( tpa ) treatment not only resulted in up-regulation of the nur77 mrna level , but also led to translocation of nur77 protein from the nucleus to the mitochondria , and caused the release of cytochrome c .
this tpa-induced translocation of nur77 was in association with the initiation of apoptosis in gastric cancer cells .
although all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) could not induce apoptosis in bgc-823 cells due to failure of stimulating nur77 translocation , expression of nur77 in the nucleus was required for cell growth inhibition by atra .
transfection of antisense nur77 receptor into bgc-823 cells resulted in resistance of cell growth against atra inhibition , and the cells were still arrested in the s phase .
furthermore , the action of nur77 in tpa-induced apoptosis was mediated through a protein kinase c signaling pathway , while mitogen-activated protein kinase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling pathways were responsible for the regulation of nur77 mrna expression .
taken together , the data revealed the dual functioning mechanisms of nur77 in gastric cancer cells in response to tpa and atra .
background intracystic papillary carcinoma ( ipc ) of the breast is a rare form of noninvasive breast cancer .
an appreciation of associated pathology with ipc may be critical in surgical decision-making .
methods the medical records of all patients with ipc treated between 1985 and 2001 were retrospectively reviewed .
three patient groups were identified according to the pathologic features of the primary tumor : ipc alone , ipc with associated ductal carcinoma in situ ( dcis ) , and ipc with associated invasion with or without dcis .
types of treatment and outcomes were compared between groups .
results forty patients were treated for ipc during the study period .
fourteen had pure ipc , 13 had ipc with dcis , and 13 had ipc with invasion .
the incidence of recurrence and the likelihood of dying of ipc did not differ between the three groups regardless of the type of surgery ( mastectomy or segmental mastectomy ) performed and whether radiation therapy was administered .
the disease-specific survival rate was 100% .
conclusions when ipc is identified , it is frequently associated with dcis and or invasion .
standard therapy should be based on associated pathology .
the role of radiation therapy in pure ipc remains to be determined .
retinoic acid ( ra ) and its derivatives inhibit the proliferation of normal human mammary epithelial cells ( hmec ) and some breast carcinoma lines by mechanisms which are not fully understood .
to identify genes that mediate ra-induced cell growth arrest , an hmec cdna library was synthesized and subtractive screening was performed .
we identified the interleukin-1beta ( il-1beta ) gene as an ra induced gene in hmec .
northern blot analyses showed that the il-1beta gene was up-regulated as early as 2 h after ra treatment .
results from the treatment of hmec with cycloheximide and actinomycin d indicated that the regulation of the il-1beta gene by ra occurred at the transcriptional level and that the il-1beta gene is a direct , downstream target gene of ra .
to evaluate the effects of il-1beta on cell proliferation , the proliferation of hmec was measured in the presence of ra or il-1beta , or both .
either ra or il-1beta could significantly inhibit the proliferation of hmec .
however , the addition of soluble il-1 receptor antagonist ( sil-1ra ) to the cell culture medium did not block ra-induced hmec growth inhibition , whereas sil-1ra did block the growth inhibition of hmec by il-1beta .
il-1beta expression was not observed in the three carcinoma cell lines , mcf-7 , mda-mb-231 , and mda-mb-468 , as compared to the hmec .
growth curves of the breast carcinoma cell lines showed strong inhibitory effects of ra and il-1beta on the growth of the estrogen receptor ( er ) positive mcf-7 cell line , but only a small effect on the er negative mda-mb-231 cells .
the expression of the il-1beta gene was also transcriptionally activated by ra in normal epithelial cells of prostate and oral cavity .
our results suggest that : ( a ) the il-1beta gene is a primary target of ra receptors in hmec ; ( b ) the enhanced expression of the il-1beta gene does not mediate the ra-induced growth arrest of hmec ; and ( c ) the expression of the il-1beta gene is low or absent in all three human breast carcinoma cell lines examined , but the defect in the il-1beta signaling pathway may be different in er positive versus er negative carcinoma cells .
genetic immunotherapy with tumor antigen gene-modified dendritic cells ( dc ) generates robust immunity , although antitumor protection is not complete in all models .
previous experience in a model in which c57bl/6 mice immunized with dc transduced with adenoviral vectors expressing mart-1 demonstrated a 20-40% complete protection to a tumor challenge with b16 melanoma cells .
tumors that did develop in immunized mice had slower growth kinetics compared to tumors implanted in nave mice .
in the present study , we wished to determine if the supraphysiological production of the th1-skewing cytokine interleukin-12 ( il-12 ) could enhance immune activation and antitumor protection in this model .
in a series of experiments immunizing mice with dc cotransduced with mart-1 and il-12 , antitumor protection and antigen-specific splenocyte cytotoxicity and interferon gamma production inversely correlated with the amount of il-12 produced by dc .
this adverse effect of il-12 could not be explained by a direct cytotoxic effect of natural killer cells directed towards dc , nor the production of nitric oxide leading to down-regulation of the immune response - the two mechanisms previously recognized to explain immune-suppressive effects of il-12-based vaccine therapy .
in conclusion , in this animal model , il-12 production by gene-modified dc leads to a cytokine-induced dose-dependent inhibition of antigen-specific antitumor protection .
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin ( tcdd ) is the most potent tumor promoter ever tested in rodents .
although it is known that most of tcdd actions are mediated by binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( ahr ) , the mechanisms leading to tumor promotion still remain to be elucidated .
loss of contact inhibition is one characteristic hallmark in tumorigenesis .
in rat liver epithelial wb-f344 cells , tcdd induces a release from contact inhibition , which is manifested by a twofold increase in cell number when tcdd ( 1 nm for 48 h ) is added to confluent cells in the presence of serum , but not when given to exponentially growing or subconfluent , serum-deprived wb-f344 cells .
loss of g1 arrest was also shown by flow cytometric analysis .
we demonstrate that tcdd treatment significantly increases cyclin d2 and cyclin a protein levels and show by immunofluorescence that these proteins accumulate in the nucleus .
although tcdd treatment leads to a strong increase in cyclin d2/cdk4 and cyclin a/cdk2 complex formation , we could only detect an elevation of cyclin a/cdk2 activity .
in accordance with a lack of elevated cdk4 activity , no decrease in the amount of hypophosphorylated retinoblastoma protein could be shown after tcdd treatment .
the importance of increased cyclin a/cdk2 activity for tcdd-dependent release from contact inhibition was shown by the fact that the cdk2/cdc2-specific inhibitor olomoucine ( 25 microm ) abolished tcdd response .
these data indicate cyclin a-dependent loss of g1 arrest after tcdd treatment mainly downstream of the retinoblastoma protein .
retinoblastoma ( rb ) is the most common intraocular tumor of childhood .
in this study we examined primary rb specimens and rb cell lines for the expression of immunoglobulin superfamily ( igsf ) antigens : mhc class i and ii ( mhc-i and mhc-ii ) , neural cell adhesion molecule ( ncam ) , intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) , and thy-1 , which play an important role in immune system and tumor cell interactions .
mhc-i and-ii , icam-1 ( cd54 ) , ncam ( cd56 ) , and thy-1 ( cdw90 ) immunoreactivity was studied in eight primary rb biopsy specimens using immunohistochemistry , three using immunoelectron microscopy , and six rb cell lines using flow cytometry ( fcm ) .
parenchymal and vascular-associated cells , phenotypically similar to retinal microglia , strongly expressed mhc-ii immunoreactivity and were distributed throughout primary rb specimens .
however , mhc-ii expression on rb cell lines was similar to nonspecific control levels .
tumor cells in primary rb specimens displayed high ncam , moderate thy-1 , and low mhc-i and icam-1 immunolabeling .
tumor vasculature expressed low to moderate mhc-i and icam-1 immunoreactivity and moderate thy-1 immunoreactivity .
ncam was not detected on the vasculature of primary rb specimens .
rb cell lines displayed variable expression of thy-1 , icam-1 , and mhc-i .
ncam was highly expressed on five of six rb cell lines .
the high levels of constitutive ncam immunoreactivity on rb tumor cells confirm the neuroectodermal origins of this tumor .
additionally , the variable expression of thy-1 may suggest separate neural lineages or differences in the maturational status ofsome rb tumors .
the presence of a population of infiltrating mhc-ii-positive cells in primary rb tumors has implications for immunomodulation of rb growth .
we have previously reported that stressed apoptotic tumor cells are more immunogenic in vivo than nonstressed ones .
using confocal microscopy we have confirmed our previous observation that heat-stressed apoptotic 12b1-d1 leukemia cells ( bcr-abl(+) ) express hsp60 and hsp72 on their surface .
to explore how the immune system distinguishes stressed from nonstressed apoptotic tumor cells , we analyzed the responses of dendritic cells to these 2 types of apoptotic cells .
we found that nonstressed and heat-stressed apoptotic 12b1-d1 cells were taken up by dendritic cells in a comparable fashion .
however , when stressed apoptotic 12b1-d1 cells were coincubated with immature dendritic cells for 24 hours , this resulted in greater up-regulation of costimulatory molecules ( cd40 , cd80 , and cd86 ) on the surface of dendritic cells .
moreover , stressed apoptotic 12b1-d1 cells were more effective in stimulating dendritic cells to secrete interleukin-12 ( il-12 ) and in enhancing their immunostimulatory functions in mixed leukocyte reactions .
furthermore , we demonstrated that immunization of mice with stressed apoptotic 12b1-d1 cells induced the secretion of t helper-1 ( t(h)1 ) profile of cytokines by spleen cells .
splenocytes from mice immunized with stressed apoptotic cells , but not nonstressed ones , were capable of lysing 12b1-d1 and the parental 12b1 line , but not a b-cell leukemia line , a20 .
our data indicate that stressed apoptotic tumor cells are capable of providing the necessary danger signals , likely through increased surface expression of heat shock proteins ( hsps ) , resulting in activation/maturation of dendritic cells and , ultimately , the generation of potent antitumor t-cell responses .
hormone replacement therapy , which is a common menopausal treatment , is contraindicated in women with breast cancers due to concerns regarding the potential for breast cell proliferation .
as such , there is a need for alternative methods for treating menopausal symptoms .
to determine the influence of one such alternative , black cohosh ( cimicifuga racemosa [ cr] ) , on estrogen-dependent mammary cancers , we conducted an in vitro investigation of the effect of an isopropanolic cr-extract on the proliferation of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer cells .
the experiments were performed using the human breast adenocarcinoma ( mcf-7 ) cell test system , an established in vitro model for estrogen-dependent tumors .
the influence of cr-extract on the proliferation of the mcf-7 cells was determined by measuring the incorporation of radioactively labeled thymidine .
under estrogen-deprived conditions , the cr-extract ( 10(-3)-10(-5) dilutions ) significantly inhibited mcf-7 cell proliferation .
additionally , application of the cr-extract inhibited estrogen-induced proliferation of mcf-7 cells .
moreover , the proliferation-inhibiting effect of tamoxifen was enhanced by the cr-extract .
such data that suggest a non-estrogenic , or estrogen-antagonistic effect of cr on human breast cancer cells lead to the conclusion that cr treatment may be a safe , natural remedy for menopausal symptoms in breast cancer .
introduction and aims the survival of pancreatic cancer patients with portal vein resection is extremely poor due to the high incidence of liver metastasis .
the occurrence of liver metastasis is decreased by locoregional arterial infusion after pancreatic surgery .
chemosensitivity tests can provide the basis for individualized chemotherapy in each patient and predict the clinical response .
therefore , the current study was designed to clarify whether locoregional chemotherapy based on the results of chemosensitivity tests has the clinical effects of preventing liver metastasis and improving survival for patients with portal vein resection .
methodology the resected specimens from 40 of 47 patients with resection of pancreatic cancer were assessed for chemosensitivity to various anticancer drugs .
fourteen patients underwent portal vein resection due to direct invasion , and nine of these patients received intra-arterial adjuvant chemotherapy on the basis of the results of mtt assay to prevent liver metastasis .
the remaining five patients received no chemotherapy .
results none of the patients who received intra-arterial chemotherapy had liver metastasis , and this group of patients had improved survival .
the mean survival of patients with intra-arterial chemotherapy was significantly longer than that of patients without chemotherapy ( 25.6 months with chemotherapy versus 9.4 months without chemotherapy ) .
conclusion a pilot study of postoperative intra-arterial chemotherapy showed the reduction of liver metastasis and improvement of survival among pancreatic cancer patients with portal vein resection .
tumor cells are elusive targets for immunotherapy due to their heterogeneity and genetic instability .
here we describe a novel , oral dna vaccine that targets stable , proliferating endothelial cells in the tumor vasculature rather than tumor cells .
targeting occurs through upregulated vascular-endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( flk-1 ) of proliferating endothelial cells in the tumor vasculature .
this vaccine effectively protected mice from lethal challenges with melanoma , colon carcinoma and lung carcinoma cells and reduced growth of established metastases in a therapeutic setting .
ctl-mediated killing of endothelial cells indicated breaking of peripheral immune tolerance against this self antigen , resulting in markedly reduced dissemination of spontaneous and experimental pulmonary metastases .
angiogenesis in the tumor vasculature was suppressed without impairment of fertility , neuromuscular performance or hematopoiesis , albeit with a slight delay in wound healing .
our strategy circumvents problems in targeting of genetically unstable tumor cells .
this approach may provide a new strategy for the rational design of cancer therapies .
the ink4a/arf tumor suppressor locus is implicated in the senescence-like growth arrest provoked by oncogenic ras in primary cells .
ink4a and arf are distinct proteins encoded by transcripts in which a shared exon is decoded in alternative reading frames .
here we analyze dermal fibroblasts ( designated q34 ) from an individual carrying independent missense mutations in each copy of the common exon .
both mutations alter the amino acid sequence of ink4a and functionally impair the protein , although they do so to different degrees .
only one of the mutations affects the sequence of arf , causing an apparently innocuous change near its carboxy terminus .
unlike normal human fibroblasts , q34 cells are not permanently arrested by ras or its downstream effectors ets1 and ets2 .
moreover , ectopic ras enables the cells to grow as anchorage-independent colonies , and in relatively young q34 cells anchorage independence can be achieved without addition of telomerase or perturbation of the p53 pathway .
whereas arf plays the principal role in ras-induced arrest of mouse fibroblasts , our data imply that ink4a assumes this role in human fibroblasts .
using standard culture conditions , primary human mammary epithelial cells ( hmecs ) undergo a premature , transient growth arrest termed m0 ( mortality stage 0 ) after 10-15 population doublings in vitro .
it has been reported that emergence from this growth arrest by the abrogation of p16(ink4a) , a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor , and expression of the catalytic component of human telomerase ( htert ) are necessary for hmec immortalization .
here we show that primary hmecs , grown on feeder layers , do not undergo this growth arrest and can be immortalized without abrogating p16 .
these findings support the concept that the so-called m0 stage represents a cell culture stress-induced growth arrest and that htert is sufficient to immortalize hmecs when cultured under adequate conditions .
optimal lymphocyte activation requires the simultaneous engagement of stimulatory and costimulatory receptors .
stimulatory immunoreceptors are usually composed of a ligand-binding transmembrane protein and noncovalently associated signal-transducing subunits .
here , we report that alternative splicing leads to two distinct nkg2d polypeptides that associate differentially with the dap10 and karap ( also known as dap12 ) signaling subunits .
we found that differential expression of these isoforms and of signaling proteins determined whether nkg2d functioned as a costimulatory receptor in the adaptive immune system ( cd8+ t cells ) or as both a primary recognition structure and a costimulatory receptor in the innate immune system ( natural killer cells and macrophages ) .
this strategy suggests a rationale for the multisubunit structure of stimulatory immunoreceptors .
purpose osteosarcoma is an aggressive primary bone cancer characterized by expression of platelet-derived growth factor ( pdgf ) and its cognate receptor .
coexpression of the growth factor and receptor suggests their role in autocrine or paracrine growth mechanisms .
it has been reported previously that sti571 has specific activity in inhibiting select tyrosine kinase receptors , including pdgf and c-kit .
osteosarcomas express low levels of c-kit but abundant levels of pdgf receptor ( pdgfr ) .
experimental design to investigate the potential of sti571 as therapy for osteosarcoma , we studied its effects on pdgf-mediated cell growth in vitro and in an in vivo mouse model .
results pdgf acted as a potent mitogen in a dose-dependent manner in two osteosarcoma cell lines .
sti571 ( 1.0 micro m ) inhibited both pdgfr-alpha and pdgfr-beta phosphorylation and the downstream phosphorylation targets extracellular signal-regulated kinase and akt .
sti571 also inhibited pdgf-mediated growth and induced apoptosis in vitro as determined by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling staining .
to study the effect of sti571 alone or in combination with taxol in an in vivo model , an osteosarcoma cell line ( krib ) was transplanted into the tibia of athymic nude mice .
mice were treated with sti571 ( 50 mg/kg p.o. q m-f ) , taxol ( 8 mg/kg i.p. weekly ) , or sti571 plus taxol for 6 weeks .
there was no significant difference in tumor size between treatment and control mice .
aberrant signaling pathways downstream of the pdgfr in the v-ki-ras oncogene-transformed krib cell line may in part explain this finding .
conclusions our data demonstrate that sti571 inhibits pdgf-mediated growth and leads to apoptosis of osteosarcoma cells in vitro by selective inhibition of the pdgfr tyrosine kinase .
the effectiveness of sti571 in our studies suggests targeting of pdgfrs as a novel treatment for osteosarcoma .
onconase ( onc ) is an amphibian ribonuclease of the pancreatic rnase family that is cytostatic and cytotoxic to several tumor lines .
it also shows anti-tumor activity in mouse tumor models and is currently in phase iii clinical trials .
in animal tests and clinical trials onc shows lesser toxicity and fewer side effects compared to most chemotherapeutic drugs .
intriguingly , repeated infusions of this protein do not cause apparent immunological reactions in patients .
the aim of the present study was to investigate sensitivity to onc of human lymphocytes during their mitogenic stimulation in response to the polyvalent mitogen phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) , and in mixed allogeneic lymphocyte cultures .
unexpectedly , we observed that frequency of cells undergoing activation-induced apoptosis was markedly increased in all cultures containing onc .
apoptosis was measured by flow cytometry using markers that detect activation of caspases , the in situ presence of dna strand breaks , and loss of fragmented dna ( 'sub-g1 ' cell subpopulation ) .
the enhancement of frequency of activation-induced apoptosis ( up to 244% ) was observed at 4.2-83 nm onc concentration , which is at least an order magnitude lower than its minimal concentration reported to affect proliferation or induce apoptosis of leukemic and solid tumor cell lines .
the cell cycle progression of lymphocytes that responded to pha mitogenically was not affected at 8.3 or 83 nm onc concentration .
because activation-induced apoptosis is the key mechanism regulating several in vivo immunological functions including induction of tolerance , the observed effects of onc may explain the apparent lack of immune reactions to this protein in treated patients .
the propensity of onc to potentiate the activation-induced apoptosis suggests that this drug may have clinical utility as immunomodulating agent , e.g. , to suppress transplant rejection or treat autoimmune diseases .
we studied whether feeding pregnant female rats different high fat diets affects structural zones in the spleen and lymph nodes , involved in production of t and b cells , as well as cell kinetics and apoptosis in some offspring with mammary glands tumors .
rat mothers were fed either a 7% or 15% corn-oil or a 7% or 15% olive-oil diet .
at four weeks of age , female offspring ( n=10-15 per group ) were transferred to 7% corn oil diet .
five-week old offspring were exposed twice to the carcinogen , dimethylbenz(a)antracene ( 10 mg/rat/week ) .
three months later , tumors were counted and sized , and samples from the spleen , axillary lymph nodes and tumors collected for immunohistochemical analyses .
feeding the mothers with both the 7% and 15% olive-oil diets significantly increased the number of tumor-free rats in offspring .
tumors were characterized with active mitosis , intensive lymphoid infiltration inside a knot and high rates of apoptosis , particularly in tumors obtained from rats whose mothers were fed the 15% olive-oil diet .
in the spleen , the 15% olive-oil diet significantly increased the areas of the follicles and germinal centers but only in tumor-free rats .
in tumor-bearing rats , areas of germinal centers increased compared to the 7% olive-oil diet .
the 15% olive-oil diet increased all areas of the lymph nodes in tumor-free rats , while in tumor-bearing rats , this diet increased the areas of the cortex and mantle layer .
we conclude that exposure to various diets in utero and during lactation affects the immune system .
in addition , the promotion of apoptosis may play a key role in the mechanisms involved in the transplacental effects on mammary tumor development as seen using a 15% olive-oil diet , similar to the high fat diets of mediterranean countries .
annexin ii is secreted into the extracellular environment , where , via interactions with specific proteases and extracellular matrix proteins , it participates in plasminogen activation , cell adhesion , and tumor metastasis and invasion .
however , mechanisms regulating annexin ii transport across the cellular membrane are unknown .
in this study , we used coimmunoprecipitation to show that annexin-ii was bound to insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 ( igf-1 ) receptors in pc12 cells and nih-3t3 cells overexpressing insulin ( nih-3t3(ir) ) or igf-1 receptor ( nih-3t3(igf-1r) ) .
stimulation of insulin and igf-1 receptors by insulin caused a temporary dissociation of annexin ii from these receptors , which was accompanied by an increased amount of extracellular annexin ii detected in the media of pc12 , nih-3t3(ir) , and nih-3t3(igf-1r) cells but not in that of untransfected nih-3t3 cells .
activation of a different growth factor receptor , the platelet-derived growth factor receptor , did not produce such results .
tyrphostin ag1024 , a tyrosine kinase inhibitor of insulin and igf-1 receptor , was shown to inhibit annexin ii secretion along with reduced receptor phosphorylation .
inhibitors of a few downstream signaling enzymes including phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase , pp60c-src , and protein kinase c had no effect on insulin-induced annexin ii secretion , suggesting a possible direct link between receptor activation and annexin ii secretion .
immunocytochemistry revealed that insulin also induced transport of the membrane-bound form of annexin ii to the outside layer of the cell membrane and appeared to promote cell aggregation .
these results suggest that the insulin receptor and its signaling pathways may participate in molecular mechanisms mediating annexin ii secretion .
dietary exposure to aflatoxins is one of the major risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma .
individual susceptibility to aflatoxin-induced hepatocarcinogenesis may be modulated by both genetic and environmental factors affecting metabolism .
a cross-sectional study was performed to evaluate determinants of the formation of aflatoxin covalently bound to albumin ( afb1-albumin adducts ) .
a total of 474 subjects who were free of liver cancer and cirrhosis and were initially selected as controls for previous case-control studies of aflatoxin-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in taiwan , were employed in this study .
aflatoxin-albumin adducts were determined by competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay , hepatitis b surface antigen and antibodies to hepatitis c virus by enzyme immunoassay , as well as genotypes of glutathione s-transferase m1-1 and t1-1 by polymerase chain reaction .
the detection rate of afb1-albumin adducts was significantly higher in males ( 42.5% ) than in females ( 21.6% ) ( multivariate-adjusted odds ratio=2.6 , 95% confidence interval=1.4-5.0 ) .
the formation of detectable albumin adducts was moderately higher in hepatitis b surface antigen carriers ( 42.8% ) than in non-carriers ( 36.6% ) ( multivariate-adjusted odds ratio=1.4 , 95% confidence interval=1.0-2.1 ) .
in addition , the detection rate of afb1-albumin adducts tended to increase with the increasing number of null genotypes of glutathione s-transferase m1-1 and glutathione s-transferase t1-1 .
in conclusion , this cross-sectional study has assessed the relative contributions of environmental exposure and host susceptibility factors in the formation of afb1-albumin adducts in a well characterised chinese adult population .
this study further emphasises the necessity to reduce aflatoxin exposure in people living in an area endemic for chronic hepatitis b virus infection .
a large number of human cancers display alterations in the ink4a/cyclin d/cdk4 genetic pathway , suggesting that activation of cdk4 plays an important role in oncogenesis .
here we report that cdk4-null mouse embryonic fibroblasts are resistant to transformation in response to ras activation with dominant-negative ( dn ) p53 expression or in the ink4a/arf-null background , judged by foci formation , anchorage-independent growth , and tumorigenesis in athymic mice .
cdk4-null fibroblasts proliferate at normal rates during early passages .
whereas cdk4(+/+)ink4a/arf(-/-) cells are immortal in culture , cdk4(-/-)ink4a/arf(-/-) cells undergo senescence during continuous culture , as do wild-type cells .
activated ras also induces premature senescence in cdk4(-/-)ink4a/arf(-/-) cells and cdk4(-/-) cells with dnp53 expression .
thus , cdk4 deficiency causes senescence in a unique arf/p53-independent manner , which accounts for the loss of transformation potential .
cdk4-null cells express high levels of p21(cip1/waf1) with increased protein stability .
suppression of p21(cip1/waf1) by small interfering rna ( sirna ) , as well as expression of hpv-e7 oncoprotein , restores immortalization and ras-mediated transformation in cdk4(-/-)ink4a/arf(-/-) cells and cdk4(-/-) cells with dnp53 expression .
therefore , cdk4 is essential for immortalization , and suppression of cdk4 could be a prospective strategy to recruit cells with inactive arf/p53 pathway to senescence .
alterations of the epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) gene are common in some forms of cancer and the most frequent is a deletion of exons 2-7 .
we have previously shown that this mutant receptor , called deltaegfr , confers enhanced tumorigenicity to glioblastoma cells through elevated proliferation and reduced apoptotic rates of the tumor cells in vivo .
to understand the molecular mechanisms that underlie deltaegfr-enhanced proliferation , we examined the gene products that control cell cycle progression .
we found that levels of the cyclin-dependent kinase ( cdk ) inhibitor , p27 , were lower in u87mg.deltaegfr tumors than in parental u87mg or control u87mg.dk tumors .
consequently , cdk2-cyclin a activity was also elevated , concomitant with the rb protein hyperphosphorylation .
in addition , activated phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( pi3-k ) and phosphorylated akt levels were also elevated in the u87mg.deltaegfr tumors .
u87mg.deltaegfr cells failed to arrest in g(1) in response to serum starvation in vitro and while maintaining high levels of pi3-k activity and hyperphosphorylated rb .
treatment of u87mg.deltaegfr cells with ly294002 , a pi3-k inhibitor , caused reduced levels of phosphorylated akt and concomitantly up-regulated levels of p27 .
expression of a kinase dead dominant-negative akt mutant in the u87mg.deltaegfr cells similarly resulted in up-regulation of p27 and down-regulation of tumorigenicity in vivo .
these results suggest that the constitutively active deltaegfr can enhance cell proliferation in part by down-regulation of p27 through activation of the pi3-k/akt pathway .
this pathway may represent another therapeutic target for treatment of those aggressive glioblastomas expressing deltaegfr .
whole body hyperthermia ( wbh ) has been used as an adjunct to radio-/chemotherapy in patients with various malignant diseases .
although clear evidence is still missing , it has been hypothesized that an activation of the immune system might contribute to the therapeutic effect of wbh .
to examine whether a treatment with 60-minute 41.8 degrees c wbh as an adjunct to chemotherapy ( wbh-ct ) induces an activation of t cells , blood samples were collected at numerous time points before and up to 48 h post-treatment .
the aim of this study was to examine the effect of wbh-ct on the expression of a broad range of activation markers on peripheral blood lymphocytes ( pbl ) , on serum cytokines and intracellular cytokine levels in t cells , and the capacity of these cells to proliferate .
immediately after 41.8 degrees c wbh-ct treatment , a drastic increase in peripheral natural killer ( nk ) cells ( p&lt;0.05 ) and cd56+ cytotoxic t lymphocytes ( ctl ; p&lt;0.01 ) in the patients ' peripheral blood was observed .
at 5 h post-treatment , the percentages of both effector cell types had returned to baseline levels .
this transient phenomenon was accompanied by a short period of reduced t cell activity , indicated by diminished serum levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptors ( sil-2r ) at 3 h post-wbh-ct ( p&lt;0.05 ) and decreased lymphocytic proliferation at the same point in time .
this first phase was followed by a marked but short-lived increase in the patients ' serum levels of interleukin-6 ( il-6 ; p&lt;0.01 ) during the first 5 h following treatment , with a subsequent decrease to baseline levels at 24 h and significantly increased serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) at 0 h ( p&lt;0.01 ) , 3 h ( p&lt;0.05 ) , 5 h ( p&lt;0.05 ) and 24 h ( p&lt;0.01 ) post-wbh-ct .
the third phase of the immunological consequences of wbh-ct consisted of an increase in the percentage of peripheral cytotoxic t lymphocytes ( ctl ) expressing cd56 , reaching a maximum at 48 h post-wbh ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
furthermore , the percentage of cd4+ t cells expressing the t cell activation marker cd69 increased nearly two-fold over time , reaching its maximum at 48 h ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
as an additional marker for t cell activation , serum levels of sil-2r increased markedly ( p&lt;0.01 ) , reaching maximum levels at the same point in time .
elevated intracellular concentrations of interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) and/or tnf-alpha in cd8+ t cells were found in 4 out of 5 patients at 24 h post-wbh-ct .
since similar changes were not observed in patients receiving chemotherapy alone , this is the first study to provide evidence for prolonged wbh-ct-induced activation of human t cells .
aim to investigate the progressive transformation of immortal cells of human fetal esophageal epithelium induced by human papillomavirus , and to examine biological criteria of sequential passage of cells , including cellular phenotype , proliferative rate , telomerase , chromosome and tumorigenicity .
methods the shee cell series consisted of immortalized embryonic esophageal epithelium which was in malignant transformation when cultivated over sixty passages without co-carcinogens .
cells of the 10th , 31st , 60th and 85th passages were present in progressive development after being transfected with hpv .
cells were cultivated in a culture flask and 24-hole cultural plates .
progressive changes of morphology , cell growth , contact-inhibition , and anchorage-dependent growth characteristics were examined by phase contrast microscopy .
the cell proliferation rate was assayed by flow cytometry .
the modal number of chromosomes was analyzed .
hpv18e(6)e(7) was detected by western blot methods and activities of telomerase were analyzed by trap .
tumorigenicity of cells was detected with soft agar plates cultivated and with tumor formation in scid mice .
results in morphological examination the 10th passage cells were in good differentiation , the 60th and 85th passages cells were in relatively poor differentiation , and the 31st passage cells had two distinct differentiations .
the characteristics of the 85th and 60th passage cells were weakened at contact-inhibition and anchorage-dependent growth .
karyotypes of four stages of cells belonged to hyperdiploid or hypotriploid , and bimodal distribution of chromosomes appeared in the 31st and 60th passage cells .
all of these characteristics combined with a increasing trend .
the activities of telomerase were expressed in the latter three passages .
four fourths of scid mice in the 85th passage cells and one fourth of scid mice in the 60th passage cells developed tumors , but the cells in the 10th and 31st passage displayed no tumor formation .
conclusion in continual cultivation of fetal esophageal epithelial cells with transduction of hpv18e(6)e(7) , cells from the 10th to the 85th passage were changed gradually from preimmortal , immortal , precancerous to malignantly transformed stages .
all of these changes were in a dynamic progressive process .
the establishment of a continuous line of esophageal epithelium may provide a in vitro model of carcinogenesis induced by hpv .
we report the formation , detection , quantitation and structural characterization of products resulting from the adduction of deoxynucleosides ( deoxyadenosine , deoxyguanosine , deoxycytidine and 5-methyldeoxycytidine ) to the catechol estrogens ( ce ) of estrone , estradiol-17beta and estradiol-17 alpha .
the crude products are obtained in a one-pot synthesis through oxidation of catechols to quinones and subsequent michael-type reaction with the deoxynucleosides in acidic medium .
in all experiments , adducts are detected by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry analysis after hplc separation ( lc/esi/ms(n) ) .
the two pyrimidines deoxycytidine and 5-methyldeoxycytidine yield only ce adducts to deoxynucleosides , which correspond to stable adducts on dna .
for purines , the results depend on the ce ( 2,3- or 3,4-catechols ) used , the function and configuration on carbon 17 ( ketone for estrone , alcohol for alpha and beta isomers of estradiol ) , and on the purine itself ( deoxyadenosine or deoxyguanosine ) .
both stable adducts and deglycosylated adducts are formed , and therefore formation of stable adducts on dna as well as the loss of purines from the dna strands could be possible .
ms(2) and ms(3) experiments prove to be relevant for further structural determinations , enabling in some cases the elucidation of the regiochemistry of adduction on the a and b rings of the steroid moiety .
triggering tumor necrosis factor receptor-1 ( tnfr1 ) induces apoptosis in various cell lines .
in contrast , stimulation of tnfr1 in l929sa leads to necrosis .
inhibition of hsp90 , a chaperone for many kinases , by geldanamycin or radicicol shifted the response of l929sa cells to tnf from necrosis to apoptosis .
this shift was blocked by crma but not by bcl-2 overexpression , suggesting that it occurred through activation of procaspase-8 .
geldanamycin pretreatment led to a proteasome-dependent decrease in the levels of several tnfr1-interacting proteins including the kinases receptor-interacting protein , inhibitor of kappa b kinase-alpha , inhibitor of kappa b kinase-beta , and to a lesser extent the adaptors nf-kappab essential modulator and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 2 .
as a consequence , nf-kappa b , p38mapk , and jnk activation were abolished .
no significant decrease in the levels of mitogen-activated protein kinases , adaptor proteins tnfr-associated death domain and fas-associated death domain , or caspase-3 , -8 , and -9 could be detected .
these results suggest that hsp90 client proteins play a crucial role in necrotic signaling .
we conclude that inhibition of hsp90 may alter the composition of the tnfr1 complex , favoring the caspase-8-dependent apoptotic pathway .
in the absence of geldanamycin , certain hsp90 client proteins may be preferentially recruited to the tnfr1 complex , promoting necrosis .
thus , the availability of proteins such as receptor-interacting protein , fas-associated death domain , and caspase-8 can determine whether tnfr1 activation will lead to apoptosis or to necrosis .
genomic instability has long been recognized as the main feature of neoplasia and a factor modulating individual cancer susceptibility .
there are attempts to find effective assays of both individual dna repair capacity and genetic instability , and their relation to the cancer risk .
genetic predisposition plays an important role in the etiology and development of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( hnscc ) .
the aim of our study was to search for a correlation between chromosomal instability and dna repair capacity in hnscc patients and healthy controls .
the chromosomal instability was measured by the number of bleomycin ( blm)-induced chromosomal aberrations and diepoxybutane ( deb)-induced sister chromatid exchanges .
the dna repair capacity was assessed using the deb-induced adaptive response ( ar ) .
the hnscc patients in our study showed a significant increase in chromosomal instability after a preterminal exposure of their lymphocytes to either blm for the last 5 h or deb for the last 24 h of incubation .
however , the ar was higher in hnscc patients than in the control group , suggesting an increase in the dna repair capacity in the cancer patients as compared to the control .
there is no correlation between the dna repair capacity estimated on the basis of preterminal exposures to blm and deb and the dna repair capacity estimated on the basis of the adaptive response to deb .
the preterminal exposure and the adaptive response test may activate different dna repair mechanisms .
deregulation of d-type cyclin-dependent kinases ( cdk4 and 6 ) is widely observed in various human cancers , illustrating their importance in cell cycle control .
like other cyclin-dependent kinases ( cdks ) , assembly with cyclins is the most critical step for activation of cdk4/6 .
as previously reported elsewhere , we observed that the level of cyclind1-cdk4 complex and its associated kinase activity were significantly low in asynchronously proliferating mouse embryo fibroblasts lacking both p21(cip1) and p27(kip1) ( p21/p27-null mefs ) .
these evidences imply that p21(cip1) and p27(kip1) cdk inhibitors are ' essential activators ' of cyclin d-kinases .
we , however , discovered here that both the assembly and activation of cyclin d1-cdk4 complex occur when quiescent p21/p27-null mefs were stimulated to re-enter the cell cycle .
this mitogen-induced cyclin d1-kinase activity was blocked by overexpression of p16(ink4a) and resulted in the inhibition of s phase entry in p21/p27-null mefs .
furthermore , ectopic expression of p34(sei-1) , a mitogen-induced cdk4 binding protein , increased the levels of active cyclind1-cdk4 complex in asynchronously proliferating p21/p27-null mefs .
together , our results suggest that there are several independent ways to stimulate the assembly of cyclin d1-cdk4 kinases .
although p21(cip1) and p27(kip1) play a role in this process , our results demonstrate that additional mechanisms must occur in g0 to s phase transition .
rho gtpases are signaling molecules known to control cell motility .
several recent studies have suggested a role for rho proteins in mediating tumor metastasis independent of their affects on cell proliferation .
as rho proteins require post-translational modification with a geranlygeranyl moiety for full activity , we tested the affect of blocking geranylation on localization , downstream signaling , and stimulation of invasion .
expression of a constitutively active rho construct in a375 melanoma cells dramatically stimulated invasion through matrigel membranes ; however , a constitutively active rhoa mutated so that it cannot be geranylated , failed to stimulate invasion .
moreover , expression of epitope or gfp tagged modifications of this nongeranylatable constitutively active rho demonstrated that geranylation is necessary for correct cellular localization of rho .
geranylation was also found to be necessary for full downstream activation of serum response factor mediated transcription .
pharmacologic inhibition of rho geranylation produced similar inhibition of rho localization , signaling , and invasion .
our results suggest that inhibition of rho geranylation may be an attractive pharmacologic target for inhibiting melanoma metastasis .
to assess the immune function of microglia and macrophages in brain tumors , the expression of mhc class ii and b7 costimulatory molecules in three rodent glioma models was examined .
microglia and macrophages , which accounted for 5-12% of total cells , expressed b7.1 and mhc class ii molecules in the c6 and 9l tumors , but not rg2 gliomas .
interestingly , the expression of b7.1 and mhc class ii molecules by microglia and macrophage was associated with an increase in the number of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in c6 and 9l tumors .
b7.2 expression , which was present at low levels on microglia and macrophages in normal brain , did not significantly change in tumors .
interestingly , the expression of all three surface antigens increased after microglia were isolated from intracranial c6 tumors and cultured for a short period of time .
we conclude that microglia immune activity may be suppressed in gliomas and directly correlates to the immunogenecity of experimental brain tumors .
comparative mutagenesis studies of n-(2'-deoxyguanosin-8-yl)-2-acetylaminofluorene ( dg-aaf ) and n-(2'-deoxyguanosin-8-yl)-2-aminofluorene ( dg-af ) adducts positioned in the nar i restriction enzyme site were performed using escherichia coli ( e. coli ) and simian kidney ( cos-7 ) cells .
oligodeoxynucleotides ( (5)(')tcctcg(1)g(2)cg(3)cctctc ) containing a recognition sequence for the nar i restriction enzyme were modified site-specifically with dg-aaf or dg-af .
modified and unmodified oligomers inserted into single-stranded phagemid shuttle vectors were used to transform e. coli or to transfect cos-7 cells .
following replication in host cells , progeny plasmids were recovered and analyzed for mutations .
in sos-induced e. coli , dg-aaf primarily induced one- and two-base deletions .
the mutational frequency varied , depending on the position modified in the nar i site ; 91% two-base deletions were observed at g(3) , while 8.4% and 2.8% deletions were detected at g(2) and g(1) , respectively .
in contrast , dg-af at any position in the nar i site failed to produce deletions , generating primarily g --&gt ; t transversions ( mutational frequency , 7.6-8.4% ) .
in cos-7 cells , both dg-aaf and dg-af primarily induced g --&gt ; t transversions .
mutation frequencies for dg-aaf were 9.4-24% , the highest values being at g(1) and g(3) .
mutation frequencies for dg-af were 9.3-21% , the higher value at g(2) .
we conclude from this study that the mutation potential of dg-aaf and dg-af depends on the structure of the adduct , the sequence context of the lesion , and the host cell used for the experiment .
background &amp ; objective altered cell adhesion has a critical role in the development of epithelial cancers .
e-cadherin act on the maintenance of cell-cell adhesion and its function was thought to be regulated by associated cytoplasmic proteins , such as alpha-catenin and beta-catenin .
this study was designed to examine the expression of beta-catenin in gastric carcinoma and to determine the relationship between tumor characteristics and survival .
methods immunohistochemical staining of beta-catenin and e-cadherin was performed in 148 patients with gastric carcinoma .
results abnormal expression of beta-catenin and e-cadherin was performed in 148 patients with gastric carcinoma .
results abnormal expression of beta-catenin and e-cadherin was demonstrated in 43.2% and 44.6% of tumors respectively .
up to 63% of tumors stained abnormally for one or two components of the cadherin-catenin complex ( beta-catenin , e-cadherin ) .
abnormal beta-catenin and e-cadherin staining occurred more frequently in poor differentiated tumor than in good differentiated tumors ( p &lt ; 0.005 , respectively ) .
there was a significant correlation between abnormal beta-catenin expression and depth of invasion(p &lt ; 0.025 ) .
moreover , abnormal beta-catenin expression was more frequent in tumors with positive lymph node metastasis ( 45/84 , 53.6% ) and distance metastasis(21/31 , 67.7% ) than in tumors without lymph node metastasis ( 19/64 , 29.7% ) ( p &lt ; 0.005 ) and distance metastasis ( 43/117 , 36.8% ) ( p &lt ; 0.005 ) .
a survival advantage was noted in tumors retaining normal membranous expression of beta-catenin , independent of type , grade , or stage ( p &lt ; 0.005 ) .
conclusions abnormal expression of the e-cadherin-catenin complex occurs frequently in gastric carcinoma .
the close correlation with poor survival suggests that abnormal beta-catenin may be a useful prognostic marker .
in an attempt to find a strategy to modulate the proliferation of vascular endothelial cells , we examined whether constitutive activation of proto-oncogen protein p21 ( ras ) induced the reentry of confluent human umbilical vascular endothelial cells ( huvecs ) into the s phase .
when an adenovirus construct expressing a constitutively active ras mutant ( ad/rasg12v ) was infected into huvecs , their morphology changed strikingly and they appeared to be transformed .
however , ad/rasg12v-infected huvecs did not enter the s phase , as determined by assessing 3h-thymidine incorporation .
in accordance with the above results , the expression of cyclin a both at the transcript and protein levels did not increase in ad/rasg12v-infected huvecs relative to that in control cells , although the expression of cyclin d1 was induced in ad/rasg12v-infected cells .
interestingly , the expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase ( cdk ) inhibitor p21cip1 was remarkably increased while that of p27kip1 did not decrease in ad/rasg12v-infected huvecs .
furthermore , cdk2 activity was not induced in ad/rasg12v-infected huvecs .
these results suggested that the constitutive activation of ras promoted the reentry of confluent huvecs in the g0 phase into the g1 phase , but not into the s phase .
the results also indicated that the constitutive activation of ras might have induced the persistent expression of p21cip1 and p27kip1 , and that this induction of p21cip1 and p27kip1 expression possibly caused the cell cycle arrest at the g1 phase .
aim the study was designed to explore the effects of antisense human telomerase rna ( ahtr ) on the malignant phenotype of gastric carcinoma cell line sgc-7901 , and its potential role in gene therapy for tumors .
methods an ahtr eukaryotic expression vector , including the sequence of template region of telomere repeats , was constructed by recombinant technology of molecules and then transfected into gastric carcinoma cell line sgc-7901 by liposome dotap .
subsequently , the expression of htr rna and ahtr rna by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction , telomerase activity by telomeric repeat amplification protocol-elisa ( trap-elisa ) , telomere length by southern blotting , cell morphology under light microscope , cellular proliferation capacity by 3-(4,5-dimethyl-2 thiazoyl)-2,5-diphenyl-2h-tetrazolium bromide assay , cell-cycle distribution by flow cytometry , efficiency of clone formation in soft agar , and tumorigenecity in nude mice were examined and evaluated in ahtr-transfected cells , control plasmid pci-neo transfected cells and their parental cells .
results an ahtr eukaryotic expression vector was constructed and successfully transfected into sgc-7901 cells .
the telomerase activity in ahtr-transfected sgc-7901 cells decreased from 100% to approximately 25% , and telomere length in the cells shortened to 3.35 from 4.08 kb at 60 population doublings .
compared with the parental cells and pci-neo transfected cells , ahtr-transfected cells displayed some morphological changes , such as decreased atypia , and recovery of contact inhibition and density inhibition under light microscope .
furthermore , ahtr-transfected cells displayed decreased invasive capacity in borden's chamber invasive model , increased g0/g1 phase rate and apoptotic rate .
surprisingly , ahtr-transfected sgc-7901 cells lost their capacity for clone formation in soft agar and tumorigencity in nude mice .
conclusion antisense-htr transfection can inhibit the growth of sgc-7901 cells and partially reverse the malignant phenotypes .
this study provides an exciting approach for cancer therapy by inhibiting telomerase activity using an antisense gene .
we identified redd1 as a novel transcriptional target of p53 induced following dna damage .
during embryogenesis , redd1 expression mirrors the tissue-specific pattern of the p53 family member p63 , and tp63 null embryos show virtually no expression of redd1 , which is restored in mouse embryo fibroblasts following p63 expression .
in differentiating primary keratinocytes , tp63 and redd1 expression are coordinately downregulated , and ectopic expression of either gene inhibits in vitro differentiation .
redd1 appears to function in the regulation of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) ; we show that tp63 null fibroblasts have decreased ros levels and reduced sensitivity to oxidative stress , which are both increased following ectopic expression of either tp63 or redd1 .
thus , redd1 encodes a shared transcriptional target that implicates ros in the p53-dependent dna damage response and in p63-mediated regulation of epithelial differentiation .
animal studies indicate that the immune system is one of the most sensitive targets of the toxic effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro-p-dibenzodioxin ( tcdd ) .
tcdd inhibits immunoglobulin secretion and decreases resistance to bacterial , viral , and parasitic infections in exposed animals .
nearly 20 years after the seveso , italy , accident , we measured immunoglobulin and complement plasma levels in a random sample of the population in the most highly exposed zones ( n = 62 ) and in the surrounding noncontaminated area ( n = 58 ) .
plasma igg levels decreased with increasing tcdd plasma concentration ( r = -0.35 , p = 0.0002 ) .
median igg concentration decreased from 1,526 mg/dl in the group with the lowest ( &lt ; 3.5 ppt ) tcdd levels to 1,163 mg/dl in the group with the highest ( 20.1-89.9 ppt ) tcdd levels ( p = 0.002 ) .
the association was significant ( p = 0.0004 ) after adjusting for age , sex , smoking , and consumption of domestic livestock and poultry in multiple regression analysis and persisted after exclusion of subjects with inflammatory diseases and those using antibiotics or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs .
igm , iga , c3 , and c4 plasma concentrations did not exhibit any consistent association with tcdd levels .
we performed a systematic review of all the articles published between 1966 and 2001 on human subjects exposed to tcdd reporting information on circulating levels of immunoglobulins and/or complement components .
the literature indicates that the evidence for effects of tcdd on humoral immunity is sparse .
methodologic issues , results , and possible sources of variation between studies are discussed .
the possible long-term immunologic effects of tcdd exhibited by the participants of the present study , coupled with the increased incidence of lymphatic tumors in the area of the accident , warrant further investigation .
during mitotic exit , a small gtpase tem1 needs to be activated .
during most of the cell cycle , tem1 activity is antagonized by a gtpase activating complex ( gap ) composed of bub2 and bfa1 .
bfa1 protein has cell cycle regulated phosphorylation depending upon the polo-like kinase cdc5 .
this phosphorylation dissociates bfa1 from tem1 and thus relieves the inhibition of tem1 by the gap complex .
bub2 and bfa1 are also required to prevent mitotic exit when there is dna damage , spindle damage or spindle misorientation at g(2)/m phase .
while cdc5 inhibits bfa1/bub2 , mutating the cdc5 phosphorylation sites on bfa1 does not have a strong activating effect on bub2/bfa1 , suggesting there must be additional regulation in this pathway .
here we report that bub2 protein also has cell cycle regulated phosphorylation .
this phosphorylation is partially dependent upon the polo-like kinase cdc5 and is consistent with negative regulation of the bub2/bfa1 gap complex .
spindle damage or spindle misorientation prevents bub2 phosphorylation .
the spindle damage effect is dependent upon the spindle assembly checkpoint components mad2 and mps1 .
thus like bfa1 , bub2 protein is also controlled both during mitotic exit and in response to cell cycle checkpoints .
bub2 phosphorylation is likely to be controlled by a novel kinase .
liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry has been used for the detection and the structural characterization of t-rich model oligonucleotides covalently modified by estradiol-2,3-quinone .
after separation by gradient elution , adducts were analyzed by negative electrospray mass spectrometry , enabling to evidence and localize the modifications in the oligonucleotide sequence .
modifications by one molecule of estrogen were evidenced on purines ( a , g ) whereas no reaction was observed on pyrimidic bases ( t ) .
isomeric adducts were differentiated using tandem mass spectrometry , and energy resolved mass spectrometry allowed to underline differences in the behavior of the adducts towards collisional excitation into an ion trap device .
prostaglandin e(2) ( pge(2) ) receptor subtype ep(2) , which is coupled to camp metabolism , is known to mediate proliferation of primary human keratinocytes in vitro .
the effect of gain or loss of ep(2) receptors in immortalized human keratinocytes ( hacat cells ) was examined .
hacat keratinocytes were transfected with sense or anti-sense constructs of the ep(2) receptor .
loss or gain of ep(2) expression was documented by immunoblot and associated changes in agonist-stimulated camp production .
loss or gain of ep(2) receptor expression correlated with alterations in plating efficiencies but with modest affects on growth .
when cell lines were studied in an organ culture model , anti-sense clones were highly invasive compared with vector controls and sense transfectants .
a marked increase in prostaglandin production is commonly seen in malignant lesions .
because prostaglandin receptors are known to undergo ligand-induced receptor down-regulation , we sought to determine whether ep(2) receptor down-regulation results in increased invasiveness .
in vector controls , invasiveness was reproduced by ligand-dependent ep(2) receptor down-regulation as assessed by immunohistochemistry .
in addition , loss of ep(2) receptor expression was associated with decreased paxillin expression , a critical component of focal adhesion assembly .
thus , down-regulation of ep(2) receptors represents a potential mechanism for neoplastic progression to an invasive phenotype .
the goal of this study was to determine the prevalence of sequence variants in the class i beta-tubulin ( clone m40 ) gene and their occurrence in human tumors and cancer cell lines .
dna was isolated from 93 control individuals representing a wide variety of ethnicities , 49 paclitaxel-naive specimens ( 16 ovarian cancers , 17 non-small cell lung cancers , and 16 ovarian cancer cell lines ) , and 30 paclitaxel-resistant specimens ( 9 ovarian cancers , 9 ovarian cancer cell lines , and 12 ovarian cancer xenografts in nude mice ) .
denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography and direct sequence analysis detected two silent polymorphisms in exon 4 , leu217leu ( ctg/cta ) and gly400gly ( ggc/ggt ) , with minor allele frequencies of 17 and 0.5% , respectively .
five nucleotide substitutions and one single-base deletion were detected in introns 1 , 2 , and 3 and in the 3 ' untranslated region .
analysis of 49 paclitaxel-naive and 30 paclitaxel-resistant specimens revealed no additional polymorphisms in the coding region .
in addition , no amino acid replacements were found in chimpanzee , gorilla , and orangutan in comparison to human .
our data demonstrate a very high degree of sequence conservation in class i beta-tubulin , suggesting that all residues are important in tubulin structure and function .
individual variation in response to treatment with paclitaxel is not likely to be caused by genetic variations in the beta-tubulin drug target .
moreover , acquired mutations in class i beta-tubulin are unlikely to be a clinically relevant cause of drug resistance .
our previous studies have shown that genistein inhibits the growth of pc3 prostate cancer cells and induces apoptosis by inhibiting nuclear factor kappab ( nf-kappab ) and akt signaling pathways .
to better understand the precise molecular mechanism(s) by which genistein exerts its effects on pc3 cells , we utilized cdna microarray to interrogate 12,558 known genes to determine the gene expression profiles altered by genistein treatment .
we found a total of 832 genes that showed a greater than twofold change after genistein treatment from two independent experiments with a high degree of concordance .
among these genes , 774 genes were down-regulated and 58 genes were up-regulated with genistein treatment .
cluster analysis showed nine different types of expression alternations .
these genes were also subjected to cluster analysis according to their biological functions .
we found that genistein regulated the expression of genes that are critically involved in the regulation of cell growth , cell cycle , apoptosis , cell signaling transduction , angiogenesis , tumor cell invasion and metastasis .
reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) analysis was used to confirm the results of cdna microarray , and the results of rt-pcr were consistent with the microarray data .
we conclude that genistein affected the expression of a large number of genes that are related to the control of cell survival and physiologic behaviors .
the gene expression profiles provide comprehensive molecular mechanism(s) by which genistein exerts its pleiotropic effects on cancer cells .
genistein-induced regulation of these genes may be further exploited for devising chemopreventive and/or therapeutic strategies for prostate cancer .
the signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat)1 is a cytoplasmic-transcription factor that is phosphorylated by janus kinases ( jak ) in response to interferon gamma(ifn-gamma) .
the phosphorylated stat1 translocates to the nucleus , where it turns on specific sets of ifn-gamma-inducible genes , such as the interferon regulatory factor ( irf)-1 .
we show here that gamma irradiation reduces the ifn-gamma mrna expression .
the inhibition of the stat1 phosphorylation and the irf-1 expression by gamma irradiation was also observed .
in contrast , the mrna levels of il-5 and transcription factor gata-3 were slightly induced by gamma irradiation when compared to the non-irradiated sample .
furthermore , we detected the inhibition of cell-mediated immunity by gamma irradiation in the allogenic-mixed lymphocytes ' reaction ( mlr ) .
these results postulate that gamma irradiation induces the polarized-th2 response and interferes with stat1 signals , thereby causing the immunosuppression of the th1 response .
properly regulated keratinocyte cell death is fundamentally important to maintain structural integrity and homeostatic function of epidermis .
moreover , from an oncological perspective , therapeutic approaches selectively targeting apoptosis of malignant cell types while sparing normal keratinocytes in surrounding skin is desirable .
apo2ligand/tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand ( apo2l/trail ) has been observed to preferentially induce cytopathic effects on transformed/malignant cell types compared with their non-neoplastic counterparts .
in this report , two different biologically active preparations of apo2l/trail , a non-tagged version , nt-apo2l/trail , and a leucine zipper fusion protein , lz-apo2l/trail , were examined for their ability to trigger apoptosis in normal human keratinocytes , and in an immortalized cell line ( hacat cells ) .
differences between these preparations were observed , including : nt-apo2l/trail induced less keratinocyte apoptosis compared with lz-apo2l/trail ; nt-apo2l/trail also induced less apoptosis of hacat cells compared with lz-apo2l/trail ; lz-apo2l/trail but not nt-apo2l/trail induced cytotoxic effects when keratinocytes became growth arrested due to undergoing spontaneous replicative senescence--a biological state previously observed to be resistant to uv-light-induced apoptosis .
similarities between preparations included : an enhanced ability for both apo2l/trail preparations to kill a greater relative percentage of hacat cells compared with keratinocytes ; enhanced cytotoxicity towards keratinocytes that had their nf-b activity inhibited ; a dependence of both apo2l/trail preparations on fadd and caspase activation ; triggering of the same caspase cascades including caspase 8 and 3 ; and an ability to induce apoptosis even when hacat cells and keratinocytes were transduced to overexpress either bcl-2 or bcl-x(l) ( survival factors that reduce susceptibility to uv-light-induced apoptosis ) .
these results indicate that while both preparations of apo2l/trail possess biological activity , there are important differences as regards their ability to induce apoptosis in normal and immortalized keratinocytes .
moreover , the death receptor pathway triggered by lz-apo2l/trail can overcome the apoptotic resistance normally observed in response to uv-light mediated by bcl-2/bcl-x(l) , as well as by the state of cellular senescence .
unraveling the molecular basis for these differential biological effects may reveal a new strategic role for these death receptor/ligands linked to apoptosis in maintaining the dynamic balance of keratinocyte proliferation , differentiation , and cell death necessary to achieve a homeostatic thickness and function of normal skin .
in addition , it may be possible to utilize these apo2l/trail preparations for the treatment of various sun-induced skin cancers as they can differentially trigger apoptosis of transformed keratinocytes , or keratinocytes with abnormal nf-kappab signaling , while sparing adjacent normal keratinocytes .
4-hydroxy-2-nonenal ( hne ) , a major racemic product of lipid peroxidation , reacts with histidine to form a stable hne-histidine michael addition-type adduct possessing three chiral centers in the cyclic hemiacetal structure .
in the present study , we characterized configurational isomers of a hne-n(alpha)-acetylhistidine adduct by nmr spectroscopy and by molecular orbital calculations .
in addition , we raised monoclonal antibodies against ( r)-hne-histidine and ( s)-hne-histidine adducts , characterized their specificities , and examined in vivo localizations of each adduct under oxidative stress .
to facilitate structural characterization of the configurational isomers of an hne-histidine adduct , we prepared the ( r)-hne-histidine and ( s)-hne-histidine adducts by incubating n(alpha)-acetylhistidine with each hne enantiomer , both of which provided two peaks ( ra and rb from ( r)-hne-histidine and sa and sb from ( s)-hne-histidine adducts ) in reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography .
the nmr analysis showed that each peak was a mixture of two diastereomers .
in addition , the analysis of the nuclear overhauser effect enabled the determination of configurations of the eight isomers .
the relative amounts of these isomers in the nmr analysis correlated with the relative energies calculated by molecular orbital methods .
on the other hand , using ( r)-hne-modified and ( s)-hne-modified keyhole limpet hemocyanins as the antigens , we raised the monoclonal antibodies , mabr310 and mabs412 , which enantioselectively recognized the ( r)-hne-histidine and ( s)-hne-histidine adducts , respectively .
among the mixtures ( ra , rb , sa , and sb ) of diastereomers , mabr310 showed the highest immunoreactivity to rb ( the mixture of 2r,4s,5r and 2s,4s,5r isomers ) , whereas mabs412 preferentially recognized sa ( the mixture of 2r,4s,5s and 2s,4s,5s isomers ) .
the presence of ( r)-hne and ( s)-hne epitopes in vivo was immunohistochemically examined in the kidney of rats exposed to the renal carcinogen , ferric nitrilotriacetate , by which nuclear and cytosolic stainings with mabr310 and mabs412 , respectively , were detected .
the ability of p53 to alter , at the transcriptional level , the gene expression of downstream targets is critical for its role as a tumor suppressor .
most models of p53 activation postulate the stepwise recruitment by p53 of coactivators , histone acetyltransferases , and/or chromatin remodeling factors to a promoter region to facilitate the subsequent access of the general transcriptional machinery required for transcriptional induction .
we demonstrate here , however , that the promoter regions for the p53 target genes , p21 , 14-3-3sigma , and karp-1 , exist in a constitutively open conformation that is readily accessible to dnase i. this conformation was not altered by dna damage or by whether p53 was present or absent in the cell .
in contrast , p53 response elements , which resided outside the immediate promoter regions , existed within dnase i-resistant chromatin domains .
thus , p53 activation of downstream target genes occurs without p53 inducing chromatin alterations detectable by dnase i accessibility at either the promoter or the response element .
as such , these data support models of p53 activation that do not require extensive chromatin alterations to support cognate gene expression .
the ht29 adenocarcinoma is a common model of epithelial cell differentiation and colorectal cancer and its death is an oft-analyzed response to tnf family receptor signaling .
the death event itself remains poorly characterized and here we have examined the involvement of caspases using pan-caspase inhibitors. zvad-fmk did not block death of ht29 cells in response to activation of the fas , trail , tnf , tweak and ltbeta receptors .
the secondary induction of tnf or the other known bona fide death inducing ligands did not account for death following ltbeta receptor activation indicating that tnf family receptors can trigger a caspase-independent death pathway regardless of the presence of canonical death domains in the receptor .
to provide a frame of reference , the phenotype of ht29 death was compared to four other tnf family receptor triggered death events ; fas induced jurkat cell apoptosis , tnf/zvad induced l929 fibroblast necrosis , tnf induced death of wehi 164 fibroblastoid cells and tnf/zvad induced u937 death .
the death of ht29 and u937 cells under these conditions is an intermediate form with both necrotic and apoptotic features .
the efficient coupling of tnf receptors to a caspase-independent death event in an epithelial cell suggests an alternative approach to cancer therapy .
a number of cancer chemotherapeutic drugs designed to have cytotoxic actions on tumor cells have recently been shown to also have antiangiogenic activities .
endothelial cell migration and proliferation are key components of tumor angiogenesis , and agents that target the microtubule cytoskeleton can interfere with these processes .
in this study , the effect on endothelial cell functions of the microtubule-stabilizing drugs taxotere and taxol were evaluated in three in vitro assays : a chemokinetic migration assay , an angiogenesis factor-mediated chemotactic migration assay , and a three-dimensional matrigel tubule formation assay , using rat fat pad endothelial cells ( rfpecs ) and/or human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( huvecs ) .
taxotere was active in all three assays at concentrations that were not cytotoxic and did not inhibit endothelial cell proliferation .
in the rfpec chemokinetic migration and in vitro tubule formation assays , the ic50 values were approximately 10(-9) m for both taxotere and taxol .
huvec migration , however , was more sensitive to taxotere , with an observed ic50 of 10(-12) m in a chemokinetic assay .
in a boyden chamber assay , huvec chemotaxis stimulated by either of two angiogenic factors , thymidine phosphorylase or vascular endothelial growth factor , was inhibited by taxotere with an ic50 of 10(-11) m and was ablated at 10(-9) m. taxotere was also up to 1000-fold more potent than taxol in inhibiting either chemokinetic or chemotactic migration .
when the microtubule cytoskeleton was visualized using immunofluorescence staining of alpha-tubulin , there were no gross morphological changes observed in huvecs or rfpecs treated with taxotere at concentrations that inhibited endothelial cell migration but not proliferation .
the effects of taxotere on migration were associated with a reduction in the reorientation of the cell's centrosome , at concentrations that did not affect gross microtubule morphology or proliferation .
reorientation of the centrosome , which acts as the microtubule organizing center , in the intended direction of movement is a critical early step in the stabilization of directed cell migration .
these data indicate that endothelial cell migration correlates more closely with changes in microtubule plasticity than with microtubule gross structure .
the antiangiogenic activity of taxotere in vivo was assessed in a matrigel plug assay .
in this assay , the angiogenic response to fibroblast growth factor 2 was inhibited in vivo by taxotere with an id50 of 5.4 mg/kg when injected twice weekly over a 14-day period , and angiogenesis was completely blocked in mice that received 10 mg/kg taxotere .
the in vivo data further suggested that taxotere had selectivity for endothelial cell migration and/or microvessel formation because infiltration of inflammatory cells into the matrigel plug was much less sensitive to inhibition by taxotere .
in conclusion , taxotere is a potent and potentially specific inhibitor of endothelial cell migration in vitro and angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo .
approximately 10% of the u.s. population ingests &lt;50% of the current recommended daily allowance for zinc .
we investigate the effect of zinc deficiency on dna damage , expression of dna-repair enzymes , and downstream signaling events in a cell-culture model .
low zinc inhibited cell growth of rat glioma c6 cells and increased oxidative stress .
low intracellular zinc increased dna single-strand breaks ( comet assay ) .
zinc-deficient c6 cells also exhibited an increase in the expression of the zinc-containing dna-repair proteins p53 and apurinic endonuclease ( ape ) .
repletion with zinc restored cell growth and reversed dna damage .
ape is a multifunctional protein that not only repairs dna but also controls dna-binding activity of many transcription factors that may be involved in cancer progression .
the ability of the transcription factors p53 , nuclear factor kappab , and activator protein 1 ( ap1 ) to bind to consensus dna sequences was decreased markedly with zinc deficiency , as assayed by electrophoretic mobility-shift assays .
thus , low intracellular zinc status causes oxidative dna damage and induces dna-repair protein expression , but binding of p53 and important downstream signals leading to proper dna repair are lost without zinc .
ovarian hormones have a pivotal role in the control of proliferation in the mammary gland , and cumulative life-time exposure to ovarian hormones is known to be a determinant of breast cancer risk .
we have shown previously that a p.o.-active , long-acting butyrate analogue , sodium phenylbutyrate ( pb ) , reduced proliferation in normal and malignant human breast cells in culture and reduced expression of ovarian hormone receptors , suggesting that pb had cellular effects consistent with decreasing breast cancer risk .
the aim of this study was to determine the in vivo effects of pb in the normal mammary gland on epithelial cell proliferation , estrogen receptor alpha ( er alpha ) expression , and cyclin d1 expression .
balb/c mice were treated with pb , delivered by mini-osmotic pumps , for 7 days .
moderate ( 250 mg/kg/day ) and high ( 500 mg/kg/day ) pb treatment resulted in a decrease in proliferation in mammary epithelial cells ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) , determined by bromodeoxyuridine incorporation .
analysis of er alpha immunostaining revealed a significant reduction in moderate- and high-treatment groups ( p = 0.01 and p = 0.02 ) , and expression of cyclin d1 was virtually ablated ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
histone deacetylase inhibition is a known mechanism of butyrate action , and consistent with this , pb increased levels of acetylated histone h3 in the mammary gland .
in summary , pb decreased proliferation in the mammary gland in vivo at clinically achievable doses .
decreased proliferation was accompanied by changes in the levels of er alpha and cyclin d1 .
these data show that pb modulates parameters thought to be involved in the carcinogenic process in the normal mammary gland , and compounds in this class may therefore be useful candidates for breast cancer chemoprevention .
background/purpose although angiogenic factors may play an important role in the biology of neuroblastoma , which frequently spreads hematogenously , the mechanism remains unclear .
the authors studied tumor progression and invasion from the perspective of angiogenesis and sought to understand the features of this type of tumor .
methods thirty-one specimens were resected from patients with neuroblastoma and the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) , and its receptor ( flk-1 ) was examined using immunohistochemistry .
the authors looked for correlations among the expressions of vegf and its receptor with various clinicopathologic factors .
in addition , they examined the expression and location of vegf and flk-1 mrna in 10 primary neuroblastoma using in situ hybridization .
results both in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry showed the presence of vegf expression within the neuroblastoma cells .
we found vegf mrna in neuroblastoma cells but not vascular endothelial cells according to in situ hybridization .
further , flk-1 mrna was present both in neuroblastoma cells and vascular endothelial cells .
the level of vegf expression was higher in unfavorable histology , using the criteria of shimada , than in favorable histology .
conclusion the authors suggest that paracrine and autocrine systems are involved in the angiogenesis of neuroblastoma , and the expression of vegf correlates with the prognosis in neuroblastoma .
we investigated the effectiveness of continuous hyperthermic peritoneal perfusion ( chpp ) for the peritoneal dissemination of gastric cancer .
a total 124 patients with advanced gastric cancer were enrolled in this study .
prophylactic chpp ( p-chpp ) was performed in 45 patients who had macroscopic serosal invasion without peritoneal dissemination , and 79 patients without chpp were a control group .
therapeutic chpp ( t-chpp ) was performed in 21 patients with peritoneal dissemination , and 52 patients without chpp were a control group .
there was no significant difference in 5 year survival between patients treated and not treated with p-chpp .
univariate analysis showed that location of tumor , tumor diameter , and lymph node metastasis influenced prognosis , but there was no prognostic factor in the cox proportional regression hazard model .
there was no significant difference in 5-year survival between patients treated and not treated with t-chpp .
univariate analysis showed that degree of peritoneal dissemination and adjuvant chemotherapy influenced prognosis , and the cox proportional regression hazard model showed that the macroscopic types and degree of peritoneal dissemination affected prognosis .
in the patients with chpp , the incidences of respiratory failure and renal failure were each statistically greater than in the patients undergoing chpp .
ionizing radiation is a potent inducer of dna damage because it causes single- and double-strand breaks , alkali-labile sites , base damage , and crosslinks .
the interest in ionizing radiation is due to its environmental and clinical implications .
single-strand breaks , which are the initial damage induced by a genotoxic agent , can be used as a biomarker of exposure , whereas the more biologically relevant double-strand breaks can be analyzed to quantify the extent of damage .
in the present study the effects of 137cs gamma-radiation at doses of 1 , 5 , and 10 gray on dna and subsequent repair by c3h10t1/2 cells ( mouse embryo fibroblasts ) were investigated .
two versions of the comet assay , a sensitive method for evaluating dna damage , were implemented : the alkaline one to detect single-strand breaks , and the neutral one to identify double-strand breaks .
the results show a good linear relation between dna damage and radiation dose , for both single-strand and double-strand breaks .
a statistically significant difference with respect to controls was found at the lowest dose of 1 gy .
heterogeneity in dna damage within the cell population was observed as a function of radiation dose .
repair kinetics showed that most of the damage was repaired within 2 h after irradiation , and that the highest rejoining rate occurred with the highest dose ( 10 gy ) .
single-strand breaks were completely repaired 24 h after irradiation , whereas residual double-strand breaks were still present .
this finding needs further investigation .
the effect of peptides released during the fermentation of milk on the humoral immune system and on fibrosarcoma growth was studied .
lactobacillus helveticus was able to release peptidic compounds during milk fermentation due to its high proteolytic activity , as was shown by the degree of proteolysis and size-exclusion hplc elution profiles .
three fractions of these compounds were separated and fed to mice during different periods ( 2 , 5 , and 7 d ) .
the humoral immune response was assessed by following the number of iga-secreting cells , and the antitumor activity was monitored by studying the regression of subcutaneously implanted fibrosarcomas .
feeding during 2 and 7 d with the medium-sized fraction ( fraction ii ) significantly increased the iga-producing cells in the intestines , whereas feeding with the large compound fraction ( fraction i ) during 5 d and the small compound fraction ( fraction iii ) during all three feeding periods provided similar increases .
a double dose of fraction ii showed the highest iga-producing cell count .
the increase by fraction iii was shown to be caused by the presence of l-tryptophan .
fraction ii significantly decreased the size of fibrosarcoma when previously fed during 7 d , and feeding with fraction i during 5 d decreased significantly its size after 35 d of growth .
although the mechanisms by which lactic acid bacteria enhance the immune system are not clear , this study clearly shows that bioactive compounds released in fermented milks contribute to the immunoenhancing and antitumor properties of these products .
the release of bioactive peptides by lactic acid bacteria can have important implications on the modulation of the cellular immune response .
food-derived heterocyclic aromatic amines ( hcas ) have proved to be carcinogenic in both rodents and nonhuman primates .
two different metabolic pathways are suggested for the metabolic activation of hca .
the hepatic pathway proceeds via a two-step process involving n-hydroxylation by cytochrome p4501a2 and subsequent o-acetylation by n-acetyltransferase-2 .
an alternative pathway may be of particular interest in extrahepatic tissues and proceeds via one-electron oxidation catalyzed by prostaglandin h synthase ( phs ) , rendering free-radical metabolites .
in this study , we investigated the metabolic activation of two hcas , 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline ( iq ) and 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine ( phip ) , by two different enzyme systems in vitro , generating different primary and secondary reactive metabolites .
rat liver s9 mix and phs were used as the activating system and represent the hepatic and extrahepatic pathways , respectively .
electron-spin resonance spectroscopy showed that both iq and phip exerted inhibiting effects on phs-mediated formation of hydroxyl radicals during the conversion of arachidonic acid to prostaglandins .
evidence for the formation of hca free radicals was presented in an indirect way by the formation of glutathione-derived thiyl radicals , with purified phs as the activating system .
activation by s9 mix did not result in the formation of detectable radical metabolites , showing that the two metabolic routes primarily led to the formation of different metabolites .
in all electron-spin resonance experiments , iq appeared to be more effective than phip .
in contrasts , dna adduct analysis by means of ( 32)p-postlabeling showed similar adduct patterns for s9 and phs in single-stranded and double-stranded salmon testes dna after incubation with phip , indicating the ultimate formation of a common reactive intermediate .
for iq , activation by phs led to an additional adduct spot that was not present after s9 activation .
furthermore , activation of iq resulted in higher adduct levels compared with phip for both activation pathways .
overall , adduct levels were higher in single-stranded dna than double-stranded dna .
our results showed that the hepatic and extrahepatic pathways resulted in different primary metabolites , while the ultimate formation of a similar reactive intermediate for phip , possibly an arylnitrenium ion , suggested that both pathways could play an important role in the onset of carcinogenesis .
cis-diamminedichloroplatinum ( ii ) ( cisplatin ) is a well characterized antitumor drug used for the treatment of a variety of human cancers .
the cytotoxicity of cisplatin is mainly mediated through the formation of dna adducts , which are also believed to be responsible for the secondary malignancies produced by the drug .
the aim of this study was to determine the in vivo mutagenic activity of cisplatin in the lacz plasmid-based transgenic mouse model .
the mutant frequency ( mf ) and the spectrum of mutations induced by cisplatin in the mouse liver were analyzed and compared to controls .
the mean mf in the lacz gene was increased 2-fold in mice treated with a single 6 mg/kg body weight dose of cisplatin and sacrificed after 17 and 28 days ( p = 0.001 and p &lt ; 0.0001 ) .
restriction analysis and sequencing of mutant dna showed that cisplatin was able to induce both large deletions and point mutations .
a specific profile of base substitution and frameshift mutations was identified in treated mice , consisting primarily of g:c--&gt;a:t transitions at gpg and apg sites , the preferential dna binding sites of cisplatin , and single basepair deletions/insertions .
the present results provide the first evidence that cisplatin has mutagenic activity in vivo and induces a characteristic pattern of mutations in the mouse liver .
this mutagenicity may be responsible for its tumorigenic activity .
epidemiological data and animal models have provided evidence that nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) have an anticancer effect .
however , the molecular mechanisms underlying these antineoplastic effects are not well understood .
we described previously that expression levels of the chemokine receptor , ccr5 , and the beta2-integrin , mac-1 , were down-regulated on primary monocytes after incubation in supernatants from human carcinoma cell lines , and that this down-regulation resulted in impaired monocyte function with respect to migration and adhesion .
we now demonstrate that these impairments are also present in vivo .
monocytes from cancer patients displayed significantly reduced ccr5 levels and migration capacities in comparison to cells from healthy donors .
because migration is necessary for the antitumor activity of monocytes/macrophages , these deficits may contribute to the suppressed immune system seen in cancer patients .
in a clinical study , we analyzed the effect of a selective cox-2 inhibitor , rofecoxib , on the migration of monocytes derived from cancer patients .
the results revealed significant improvement in migration equal to those levels seen in healthy donors .
we conclude that in patients with cancer , the intake of rofecoxib for 3 wk leads to significant restoration of monocyte function .
these data may , at least in part , help explain the anticancer effects of nsaids .
the colon carcinoma cell line cc531 is metastatic to liver after splenic injection in syngeneic rats .
after repeated in vivo passages , a subline was selected that produced liver metastases at a considerably higher rate than the original cell line .
these cells were characterized by increased intracellular glutathione , proliferation and ability to restore glutathione after exposure to oxidative stress , thus indicating an elevated resistance to oxidative stress .
furthermore , the increased metastatic ability was also accompanied by increased proliferation rate , adhesion to extracellular matrix proteins and endothelial cells , and secretion of a 60 kd matrix metalloproteinase .
when cultured in vitro for a prolonged time ( more than 30 trypsinizations ) , the cells showed a reduced in vivo metastatic ability , reduced secretion of three metalloproteinases including the 60 kd proteinase , and reduced intracellular glutathione .
these results indicate that metastatic ability can be influenced through several adaptive mechanisms , and that the cell's ability to resist oxidative stress and maintain intracellular glutathione are of central importance .
neuroblastoma ( nb ) , a common pediatric neoplasm , consists of two main cell populations : neuroblastic/ganglionic cells and schwann cells .
nb tumors with abundant schwannian stroma display a more benign clinical behavior than stroma-poor tumors .
recent studies suggest that schwann cells influence nb tumor growth via secreted factors that induce differentiation , suppress proliferation , and inhibit angiogenesis .
two angiogenesis inhibitors , pigment epithelium-derived factor and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 , have been detected in schwann cell secretions .
here , we isolated another schwann cell-derived secreted inhibitor of angiogenesis , a 43-kda protein identified as sparc ( secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine ) , an extracellular matrix protein .
we found sparc to be critical for the antiangiogenic phenotype of cultured schwann cells .
we also show that purified sparc potently inhibits angiogenesis and significantly impairs nb tumor growth in vivo .
sparc may be an effective candidate for the treatment of children with clinically aggressive , schwannian stroma-poor nb tumors .
objective to design and develop a novel , sensitive and versatile method for in vivo foot printing and studies of dna damage , such as dna adducts and strand breaks .
methods starting with mammalian genomic dna , single-stranded products were made by repeated primer extension , these products were ligated to a double-stranded linker having a randomized 3 ' overhang , and used for pcr .
dna breaks in p53 gene produced by restriction endonuclease afai were detected by using this new method followed by southern hybridization with dig-labeled probe .
results this randomized terminal linker-dependent pcr ( rdpcr ) method could generate band signals many-fold stronger than conventional ligation-mediated pcr ( lmpcr ) , and it was more rapid , convenient and accurate than the terminal transferase-dependent pcr ( tdpcr ) .
conclusion dna strand breakage can be detected sensitively in the gene level by rdpcr .
any lesion that blocks primer extension should be detectable .
dna-protein cross-links ( dpcs ) are formed upon exposure to a variety of chemical and physical agents and pose a threat to genomic integrity .
in particular , acrolein and related aldehydes produce dpcs , although the chemical linkages for such cross-links have not been identified .
here , we report that oligodeoxynucleotides containing 1,n(2)-deoxyguanosine adducts of acrolein , crotonaldehyde , and trans-4-hydroxynonenal can form cross-links with the tetrapeptide lys-trp-lys-lys .
we concluded that complex formation is mediated by a schiff base linkage because dna-peptide complexes were covalently trapped following reduction with sodium cyanoborohydride , and pre-reduction of adducted dnas inhibited complex formation .
a previous nmr study demonstrated that duplex dna catalyzes ring opening for the acrolein-derived gamma-hydroxy-1,n(2)-propanodeoxyguanosine adduct to yield an aldehydic function ( de los santos , c. , zaliznyak , t. , and johnson , f .
( 2001 ) j. biol .
chem. 276 , 9077-9082 ) .
consistent with this earlier observation , the adducts under investigation were more reactive in duplex dna than in single-stranded dna , and we concluded that the ring-open aldehydic moiety is the induced tautomer in duplex dna for adducts exhibiting high relative reactivity .
adducted dna cross-linked to arg-trp-arg-arg and lys-trp-lys-lys with comparable efficiency , and n(alpha)-acetylation of peptides dramatically inhibited trapping ; thus , the reactive nucleophile is located at the n-terminal alpha-amine of the peptide .
these data suggest that schiff base chemistry can mediate dpc formation in vivo following the formation of stable aldehyde-derived dna adducts .
recent studies indicate that cyclooxygenase-2 ( cox-2 ) is overexpressed in pancreatic adenocarcinoma and may play a critical role in this rapidly progressing form of cancer .
a human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line , mia paca-2 , was incubated for 18 hours with 5 micromol/l of rofecoxib ( vioxx ) , a selective cox-2 inhibitor .
total rna was isolated and gene expression analyzed by dna microarray chips .
in a separate experiment , athymic mice were orthotopically injected with 7.5 x 10(5) mia paca-2 cells through a minilaparotomy .
after 1 month , laparotomy was repeated to measure tumor size , and mice were randomized to receive reformulated rodent chow containing either 12.5 mg/kg/day of rofecoxib or no drug for 21 days .
tumor growth was assessed by comparing volume before and after treatment .
in vitro , rofecoxib decreased gene expression of cyclin d1/prad1 , a key component of cell cycle progression , while increasing expression of several cell cycle arrest genes , including p21/waf1 , p33/ing , gadd34 , and gadd45 ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
in vivo , tumor growth was significantly reduced in treated vs. control mice ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
no systemic toxicity was observed in mice receiving rofecoxib .
these data suggest that rofecoxib slows the growth of human pancreatic cancer through changes in gene expression that favor cell cycle arrest .
several members of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase family play key roles in recognising and responding to damage in dna , induced by a variety of chemicals and other agents .
one of these , atm , the product of the gene mutated in the human genetic disorder ataxia-telangiectasia ( a-t ) , recognises double strand breaks in dna caused by ionizing radiation and radiomimetic chemicals .
in order to study dna damage recognition and the abnormalities of genome instability and cancer predisposition that occur in a-t patients , we generated a mouse model expressing a mutant form of atm corresponding to a common human mutation .
in this model , a 9 nucleotide in-frame deletion was introduced into the atm gene and has been designated atm-delta sri .
these animals had a longer lifespan than atm gene disrupted mice ( atm(-/-) ) and they developed less thymic lymphomas .
a characteristic of the lymphomas appearing in atm-delta sri mice was an increased rate of apoptosis compared to the corresponding tumours in atm(-/-) mice .
increased expression of fasl in these tumours may account for the higher levels of apoptosis .
these results demonstrate that expression of mutant atm in mice gives rise to phenotypic differences compared to atm(-/-) mice and has implications for heterogeneity described in the human syndrome .
human esophageal adenocarcinoma ( eac ) develops in a sequence from gastroesophageal reflux disease ( gerd ) , columnar-lined esophagus ( cle ) , dysplasia , and eventually to eac .
we established a rat surgical eac model with esophagogastroduodenal anastomosis ( egda ) to mimic the staged process of esophageal adenocarcinogenesis .
profiling of the aa metabolites with mass spectrometry showed that prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) , leukotriene b4 ( ltb4 ) , 15-hydroeicosatetraenoic acid ( hete ) , 12-hete , 8-hete and 5-hete all increased at the esophagoduodenal junction after egda as compared with the proximal esophagus , with pge2 as the major metabolite .
consistent with this profile , cyclooxygenase 2 ( cox2 ) was overexpressed in the basal cell layer of esophageal squamous epithelium , cle cells and eac tumor cells of the egda rats , as compared with the normal esophageal epithelium .
sulindac ( a cox inhibitor ) , nordihydroguaiaretic acid ( ndga , a lipoxygenase inhibitor ) and alpha-difluoromethylornithine ( dfmo , an ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor ) were tested for their possible inhibitory actions against the formation of eac in the rat egda model .
in a short-term study ( for 4 weeks after surgery ) , dietary administration of both sulindac ( 300 and 600 p.p.m. ) and ndga ( 100 p.p.m. ) effectively reduced the egda-induced inflammation .
in a long-term chemoprevention study ( for 40 weeks after surgery ) , 300 p.p.m. sulindac , alone or in combination with 100 p.p.m .
ndga or 0.5% dfmo , decreased the tumor incidence from 57.7 to 26.9% , or 16.7 or 20% , respectively ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
ndga alone ( 100 and 200 p.p.m. ) slightly decreased the tumor incidence to 52.4 and 37% , respectively , although the difference was not statistically significant .
dfmo alone did not show significant effects on tumor incidence .
inhibition of tumor formation by sulindac was correlated with lowered levels of pge2 .
in conclusion , sulindac exerted its chemopreventive effect against the formation of eac in the rat egda model possibly through its inhibition of cox .
to examine the association of cell cycle regulatory gene inactivation with human cell immortalization , we determined the expression status of ink4a , rb , and waf1/ cip1 , in eleven in vitro immortalized human cell lines , including fibroblasts and keratinocytes .
two human papillomavirus type 16 e6 expressing cell lines with telomerase activity , including a fibroblast cell line and a keratinocyte cell line , expressed no detectable p16(ink4a) .
these cell lines had a hyperphosphorylated prb and reduced expression of p21(waf1/cip1) .
all of seven fibroblast cell lines immortalized either spontaneously or by ( 60)co , x-rays , 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide or aflatoxin b(1) , maintaining their telomeres by the alt ( alternative lengthening of telomeres ) pathway , displayed loss of expression of p16(ink4a) and hyperphosphorylation of prb .
levels of p21(waf1/cip1) expression varied among the cell lines .
two fibroblast cell lines that became immortalized following infection with a retrovirus vector encoding human telomerase catalytic subunit ( htert ) cdna were also accompanied by inactivation of p16(ink4a) and prb pathways .
acquisition of telomerase activity alone was not sufficient for immortalization of these cell lines .
taken together , all the cell lines including fibroblasts and keratinocytes , with either telomerase activity or the alt pathway for telomere maintenance showed loss of expression of p16(ink4a) and hyperphosphorylation of prb .
these demonstrate the association of inactivation of both p16(ink4a) and prb with immortalization of human cells including fibroblasts and epithelial cells and telomerase-positive cells and alt-positive cells .
it was proved that nuclear factor-kappa b play an important role in the activation of immune cell , anti-virus , various stress reaction , and regulation of apoptosis , etc .
the objective of this study was to investigate the effect of nf-kappa b signal-transduction pathway on apoptosis of hepatic carcinoma cell line-7721 induced by tnf-alpha .
the xeroderma pigmentosum group c ( xpc ) protein specifically involved in genome-wide damage recognition for nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) was purified as a tight complex with hr23b , one of the two mammalian homologs of rad23 in budding yeast .
this xpc-hr23b complex exhibits strong binding affinity for single-stranded dna , as well as preferential binding to various types of damaged dna .
to examine the structure-function relationship of xpc , a series of truncated mutant proteins were generated and assayed for various binding activities .
the two domains participating in binding to hr23b and damaged dna , respectively , were mapped within the carboxy-terminal half of xpc , which also contains an evolutionary conserved amino acid sequence homologous to the yeast rad4 protein .
we established that the carboxy-terminal 125 amino acids are dispensable for both hr23b and damaged dna binding , while interactions with transcription factor iih ( tfiih ) are significantly impaired by truncation of this domain .
furthermore , deletion of the extreme carboxy-terminal domain totally abolished xpc activity in the cell-free ner reaction .
these results suggest that following initial damage recognition , the carboxy terminus of xpc may be essential for the recruitment of tfiih , and that most truncation mutations identified in xp-c patients result in non-functional proteins .
many different cellular pathways have evolved to protect the genome from the deleterious effects of dna damage that result from exposure to chemical and physical agents .
among these is a process called transcription-coupled repair ( tcr ) that catalyzes the removal of dna lesions from the transcribed strand of expressed genes , often resulting in a preferential bias of damage clearance from this strand relative to its non-transcribed counterpart .
lesions subject to this type of repair include cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers that are normally repaired by nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) and thymine glycols ( tgs ) that are removed primarily by base excision repair ( ber ) .
while the mechanism underlying tcr is not completely clear , it is known that its facilitation requires proteins used by other repair pathways like ner .
it is also believed that the signal for tcr is the stalled rna polymerase that results when dna damage prevents its translocation during transcription elongation .
while there is a clear role for some ner proteins in tcr , the involvement of ber proteins is less clear .
to explore this further , we studied the removal of 7-methylguanine ( 7meg ) and 3-methyladenine ( 3mea ) from the dihydrofolate reductase ( dhfr ) gene of murine cell lines that vary in their repair phenotypes. 7meg and 3mea constitute the two principal n-methylpurines formed in dna following exposure to methylating agents .
in mammalian cells , alkyladenine dna alkyladenine glycosylase ( aag ) is the major enzyme required for the repair of these lesions via ber , and their removal from the total genome is quite rapid .
there is no observable tcr of these lesions in specific genes in dna repair proficient cells ; however , it is possible that the rapid repair of these adducts by ber masks any tcr .
the repair of 3mea and 7meg was examined in cells lacking aag , ner , or both aag and ner to determine if rapid overall repair masks tcr .
the results show that both 3mea and 7meg are removed without strand bias from the dhfr gene of ber deficient ( aag deficient ) and ner deficient murine cell lines .
furthermore , repair of 3mea in this region is highly dependent on aag , but repair of 7meg is equally efficient in the repair proficient , ber deficient , and ner deficient cell lines .
strikingly , in the absence of both ber and ner , neither 7meg nor 3mea is repaired .
these results demonstrate that ner , but not tcr , contributes to the repair of 7meg , and to a lesser extent 3mea .
in saccharomyces cerevisiae , mre11p , rad50p , and xrs2p function as a multiprotein complex that has a central role in several dna repair mechanisms .
though mre11p has both single-stranded and double-stranded 3'-5 ' exonuclease activity in vitro , null mutants of mre11 , rad50 , and xrs2 exhibit reduced 5'-3 ' resection of ho-induced double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) in vivo .
in this study , we analyzed four mre11 mutants harboring changes in the n-terminus of mre11p where the four phosphoesterase motifs specify the in vitro nuclease activities of mre11p and its homologues .
we find that the 5'-3 ' resection defects in vivo do not correlate with several mitotic phenotypes : non-homologous end-joining ( nhej ) , telomere length maintenance , and adaptation to the dna damage-inducible g2/m checkpoint .
overexpression of the 5'-3 ' exonuclease exo1p in a mre11delta strain partially increased 5'-3 ' resection and partially suppressed both methyl methanesulfonate ( mms ) hypersensitivity and adaptation phenotypes , but did not affect telomere length or nhej .
surprisingly , the co-expression of two alleles , mre11-58s and mre11-n113s , each of which confers mms hypersensitivity and short telomeres , can fully complement the mms sensitivity and shortened telomere length of mre11delta cells .
we propose that at least two separate activities associated with the n-terminus of mre11p are required for its mitotic function .
to explore the possibility of a new therapeutic strategy for leukemia by intervening in the dna methylation to re-express p15 suppressor gene , methylation inhibitors , 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine ( 5-aza-cdr ) and cell differentiation agent ( cdaii ) were used to treat myelogenous leukemia cell line kg1a in which p15 gene expression was suppressed due to dna hypermethylation .
the biological characteristics of kg1a cells untreated or treated with the agents were investigated and analyzed using morphology , methylation specific-pcr ( msp ) , ( 3)h-labeled microassay technique , restriction endonuclease reaction , flow cytometry and immunofluorescence methods .
the results indicated that both agents showed concentration-dependent and time-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation. 5-aza-cdr and cdaii induced apoptosis and cell differentiation with g(2) and g(0)/g(1) arrest respectively .
furthermore , dna methyltransferase activity and level of methylation in genomic dna were decreased and p15 protein was re-expressed partially .
it is concluded that it is possible to treat leukemia by intervening in the dna methylation using methyltransferase inhibitors and it is worth to make a thorough study on mechanism of the new strategy .
the purpose of this investigation was to study the variation of p73 gene expression in the apoptotic process of acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) cell line u937 induced by methotrexate ( mtx ) .
morphological changes of apoptotic cells were observed with microscopy and wright's + giemsa staining .
dna ladder and cell cycle were examined by agarose gel electrophoresis and flow cytometry respectively .
using semi-quantitive reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) , the expression of p73 mrna was examined .
results showed that mtx could induce u937 cell apoptosis effectively .
condensed nuclei , fragmentation of chromosome and dna ladder were seen after 6 hour following treatment of mtx 5 micro mol/l .
sub-g(1) peak and s + g(2)/m arrest were also determined by fcm , but the quantity of p73 expression was generally constant .
in conclusion , u937 cell apoptosis induced by mtx did not change p73 mrna level .
free radical-induced cellular stress contributes to cancer during chronic inflammation .
here , we investigated mechanisms of p53 activation by the free radical , no .
no from donor drugs induced both ataxia-telangiectasia mutated ( atm)- and ataxia-telangiectasia mutated and rad3-related-dependent p53 posttranslational modifications , leading to an increase in p53 transcriptional targets and a g(2)m cell cycle checkpoint .
such modifications were also identified in cells cocultured with no-releasing macrophages .
in noncancerous colon tissues from patients with ulcerative colitis ( a cancer-prone chronic inflammatory disease ) , inducible no synthase protein levels were positively correlated with p53 serine 15 phosphorylation levels .
immunostaining of hdm-2 and p21(waf1) was consistent with transcriptionally active p53 .
our study highlights a pivotal role of no in the induction of cellular stress and the activation of a p53 response pathway during chronic inflammation .
adenoid cystic carcinoma ( acc ) of the salivary glands is a highly infiltrative malignant tumour with a tendency for lung metastasis .
gene therapy could be a potentially effective therapy for acc and its metastasis .
the aims of the study were : to transduce interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) gene into an acc cell line with predisposition for lung metastasis ( acc-m ) ; to compare the bioactivity of the gene-transduced cells and the parent cell line in vitro and in vivo .
the il-2 gene was transduced via a bicistronic retroviral vector into the acc-m cells .
the growth rate and dna cell cycles of the parent acc-m , the control viral vector amgcen , and the gene transduced amil-2 cell cultures were compared quantitatively and by flow cytometry , respectively .
the tumourigenic ability of the three cell lines was verified by inoculation in athymic nude mice .
the tumours developed were extracted and compared quantitatively and histologically .
there was no difference in the growth rate and the dna count between the acc-m , amgcen , and amil-2 cell cultures .
in the animal experiment , both the acc-m and amgcen cells stimulated lung metastasis in all the mice , whereas there was no tumour found in the 1 x 10(6) amil-2 cells inoculation .
on 3 x 10(6) amil-2 cells stimulation , three out of six mice developed tumours but the mass and volume of the tumours were smaller than the other two groups .
under light microscopy , the acc-m tumours were mainly poorly differentiated with minimal cellular matrix , whereas the amil-2 tumours were well differentiated with ample matrix .
the transduction of il-2 gene can reduce the tumourigenicity of acc-m cells and induces tumour cell differentiation in mice .
the il-2 gene can be a potential effective gene for the treatment of adenoid cystic carcinoma of salivary glands and its lung metastasis .
dna mismatch repair ( mmr ) is the process by which incorrectly paired dna nucleotides are recognized and repaired .
a germline mutation in one of the genes involved in the process may be responsible for a dominantly inherited cancer syndrome , hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer .
cancer progression in predisposed individuals results from the somatic inactivation of the normal copy of the mmr gene , leading to a mutator phenotype affecting preferentially repeat sequences ( microsatellite instability , msi ) .
recently , we identified children with a constitutional deficiency of mmr activity attributable to a mutation in the h mlh1 gene .
these children exhibited a constitutional genetic instability associated with clinical features of de novo neurofibromatosis type 1 ( nf1 ) and early onset of extracolonic cancer .
based on these observations , we hypothesized that somatic nf1 gene mutation was a frequent and possibly early event in mmr-deficient cells .
to test this hypothesis , we screened for nf1 mutations in cancer cells .
genetic alterations were identified in five out of ten tumor cell lines with msi , whereas five mmr-proficient tumor cell lines expressed a wild-type nf1 gene .
somatic nf1 mutations were also detected in two primary tumors exhibiting an msi phenotype .
finally , a 35-bp deletion in the murine nf1 coding region was identified in mlh1-/- mouse embryonic fibroblasts .
these observations demonstrate that the nf1 gene is a mutational target of mmr deficiency and suggest that its inactivation is an important step of the malignant progression of mmr-deficient cells .
il-16 is a ligand and chemotactic factor for cd4+ t cells .
il-16 inhibits the cd3 mediated lymphocyte activation and proliferation .
the effects of il-16 on the target cells are dependent on the cell type , the presence of co-activators etc .
to understand the regulation function and mechanism of il-16 on target cells , we used a 130 a.a. recombinant il-16 to study its effects on the growth of jurkat t leukemia cells in vitro .
we found that the ril-16 stimulated the proliferation of jurkat cells at low dose ( 10(-9)m ) , but inhibited the growth of the cells at higher concentration ( 10(-5)m ) .
results showed that 10(-5) m of ril-16 treatment induced an enhanced apoptosis in jurkat cells .
the treatment blocked the expression of fasl , but up-regulated the c-myc and bid expression in the cells .
pre-treatment of pkc inhibitor or mek1 inhibitor markedly increased or decreased the ril-16 induced growth-inhibiting effects on jurkat cells , respectively .
the results suggested that the ril-16 might be a regulator for the growth or apoptosis of jurkat cells at a dose-dependent manner .
the growth-inhibiting effects of ril-16 might be fas/fasl independent , but , associated with the activation of pkc , up-regulated expression of c-myc and bid , and the participation of the erk signal pathway in jurkat cells .
the triterpenoid fraction ( 100 and 200 mg/kg ) of the fruit bodies of ganoderma lucidum inhibited primary solid-tumor growth in the spleen , liver metastasis and secondary metastatic tumor growth in the liver in intrasplenic lewis lung carcinoma ( llc)-implanted mice .
in addition , the triterpenoid fraction ( 800 micrograms/ml ) inhibited angiogenesis induced by matrigel ( a soluble basement membrane extract of the engelbreth-holm-swam ( ehs ) tumor ) supplemented with vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) and heparin in an in vivo model .
this suggested that the antitumor and antimetastatic activities of the triterpenoid fraction of g. lucidum might be due to the inhibition of tumor-induced angiogenesis .
next , we attempted to isolate the active substance(s) using the in vivo assay system of matrigel-induced angiogenesis .
the acidic fraction of the triterpenoid fraction inhibited the matrigel-induced angiogenesis .
compound i was isolated from the acidic fraction as an active substance that inhibited the martigel-induced angiogenesis .
compound i was identified as ganoderic acid f based on the data of ir , 1h- and 13c-nmr and ms analyses .
despite experimental evidence that sulforaphane can exert chemopreventive effects , whether these effects are specific for neoplastic cells is not known .
following our previous demonstration that sulforaphane induces cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in human t lymphoblastoid jurkat leukemia cells and increases p53 and bax protein expression , we tested sulforaphane on non-transformed phytohemagglutinin-stimulated human lymphocytes .
here , we demonstrate that sulforaphane arrested cell cycle progression in g , phase , through a decrease in the protein expression of cyclin d3 .
moreover , sulforaphane induced apoptosis ( and also necrosis ) , mediated by an increase in the expression of p53 .
these findings suggest that sulforaphane is a growth modulator for t cells .
our in vitro evidence that sulforaphane is active and even cytotoxic in normal as well as transformed lymphocytes raises important questions regarding its suitability for cancer chemoprevention .
glycol ethers are known reproductive and developmental toxins in laboratory animals , but little is known about their genotoxic effects in humans .
in the current article , the authors tested the hypothesis that human in utero exposure to ethylene glycol monomethyl ether ( egme ) is associated with the development of specific congenital anomalies and elevated levels of chromosome aberrations .
the authors conducted a clinical and cytogenetic evaluation of 41 offspring of 28 females occupationally exposed to egme for an average duration of 4.6 yr .
six offspring of 5 women who were occupationally exposed to egme during pregnancy exhibited characteristic dysmorphic features that were not observed in 35 offspring of 23 women who worked in the same facility , but who were not pregnant at the time of exposure .
persistent cytogenetic damage was observed exclusively in all 6 in-utero-exposed offspring , but not in their 12 match non-in-utero-exposed controls .
the study characterizes egme as a human teratogen , as indicated by the prevalence of characteristic dysmorphic features and persistent cytogenetic damage in individuals exposed in utero to this chemical .
dna polymerases beta ( pol beta ) and eta ( pol eta ) are the only two eukaryotic polymerases known to efficiently bypass cisplatin and oxaliplatin adducts in vitro .
frameshift errors are an important aspect of mutagenesis .
we have compared the types of frameshifts that occur during translesion synthesis past cisplatin and oxaliplatin adducts in vitro by pol beta and pol eta on a template containing multiple runs of nucleotides flanking a single platinum-gg adduct .
translesion synthesis past platinum adducts by pol beta resulted in approximately 50% replication products containing single-base deletions .
for both adducts the majority of -1 frameshifts occurred in a ttt sequence 3-5 bp upstream of the dna lesion .
for pol eta , all of the bypass products for both cisplatin and oxaliplatin adducts contained -1 frameshifts in the upstream ttt sequence and most of the products of replication on oxaliplatin-damaged templates had multiple replication errors , both frameshifts and misinsertions .
in addition , on platinated templates both polymerases generated replication products 4-8 bp shorter than the full-length products .
the majority of short cisplatin-induced products contained an internal deletion which included the adduct .
in contrast , the majority of oxaliplatin-induced short products contained a 3 ' terminal deletion .
the implications of these in vitro results for in vivo mutagenesis are discussed .
mice defective in the mismatch repair ( mmr ) gene msh2 manifest an enhanced predisposition to skin cancer associated with exposure to uvb radiation .
this predisposition is further heightened if the mice are additionally defective for the nucleotide excision repair gene xpc .
to test the hypothesis that the predisposition of msh2 mutant mice to skin cancer reflects a mutator phenotype associated with increased proliferation of skin cells following exposure to uv radiation , msh2 mutant mice were exposed to the tumor promoter tpa .
such mice showed a robust proliferative response in the skin , but did not manifest evidence of dysplasia or neoplasia .
we conclude that the predisposition of msh2 mice to uvb radiation-induced skin cancer reflects an interaction between the processes of mismatch repair and some other excision repair mode , the exact nature of which remains to be established .
arsenic trioxide ( ato ) is a novel agent to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) .
ato can degrade chimeric pml-rar proteins and induce apoptosis in various cancer cells .
however , its effects on primary hematopoietic cd34+ have not been examined .
in this study , we compared the effects of ato on hl60 leukemic cells and primary umbilical cord blood ( ucb ) cd34+ cells .
hl60 cells and ucb cd34+ cells were cultured with different concentrations of ato for up to three weeks and examined for changes of cell cycle .
we found that ato ( &lt ; or = 5 microm ) caused prolongation of g1/s and g2/m phase in a dose-dependent manner .
the percentage of cells in g2/m increased significantly ( from 8.6 to 53.8% ) .
high-dose ato ( &gt ; or = 25 microm ) caused non-specific cell death in hl60 cells without any changes in cell cycle .
in contrast to hl60 cells , ucb cd34+ cells were more resistant to high-dose ato and most ato-resistant cd34+ cells remained in g0/g1 phase .
primary cells that were resistant to ato were rich in cd34+ cells .
we further show that the ato resistance was not related to the expression of p-glycoprotein ( mdr-1 ) .
our results suggest that the resistance to ato in primitive ucb cd34+ cells is most likely related to its cell-cycle status .
these results could be useful to design treatments for non-apl malignancies and to enrich hematopoietic stem cells in clinically applicable settings .
vanadium pentoxide , commercially the most important compound of vanadium , presents a potential occupational hazard during the cleaning of oil-fired boilers and furnaces , the handling of catalysts , and during the refining , processing , or burning of vanadium-rich mineral ores or fossil fuels .
vanadium pentoxide was nominated for study by the national cancer institute as a representative of the metals class study .
male and female f344/n rats and b6c3f1 mice were exposed to vanadium pentoxide ( 99% pure ) by inhalation for 16 days , 14 weeks , or 2 years .
genetic toxicology studies were conducted in salmonella typhimurium and mouse peripheral blood. 16-day study in rats : groups of five male and five female rats were exposed to particulate aerosols of vanadium pentoxide at concentrations of 0 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , or 32 mg/m(3) by inhalation , 6 hours per day , 5 days per week for 16 days .
three males in the 32 mg/m(3) group died before the end of the study .
mean body weights of males and females exposed to 8 mg/m(3) or greater were less than those of the chamber controls .
clinical findings included rapid respiration and hypoactivity in rats exposed to 16 or 32 mg/m(3) .
relative lung weights of 4 mg/m(3) or greater males and 2 mg/m(3) or greater females were significantly greater than those of the chamber controls .
lavage fluid analysis indicated an inflammatory response in the lung that was either directly mediated by vanadium pentoxide or was secondary to lung damage induced by vanadium pentoxide exposure. 16-day study in mice : groups of five male and five female mice were exposed to particulate aerosols of vanadium pentoxide at concentrations of 0 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , or 32 mg/m(3) by inhalation , 6 hours per day , 5 days per week for 16 days .
all males exposed to 32 mg/m(3) and one 8 mg/m(3) male died or were killed moribund before the end of the study .
mean body weights of 16 mg/m(3) males and 8 mg/m(3) or greater females were significantly less than those of the chamber controls , and the 32 mg/m(3) females lost weight during the study .
absolute and relative lung weights of 4 mg/m(3) or greater males and all exposed groups of females and liver weights of 16 mg/m(3) males were significantly greater than those of the chamber controls .
the mediastinal lymph nodes were enlarged in 4 , 8 , and 16 mg/m(3) males and females , and lymphoid hyperplasia was confirmed histologically .
lavage fluid analysis indicated an inflammatory response in the lung that was either directly mediated by vanadium pentoxide or was secondary to lung damage induced by vanadium pentoxide exposure. 3-month study in rats : groups of 10 male and 10 female rats were exposed to particulate aerosols of vanadium pentoxide at concentrations of 0 , 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , or 16 mg/m(3) by inhalation , 6 hours per day , 5 days per week for 3 months .
seven males and three females exposed to 16 mg/m(3) died during the study .
mean body weights were significantly less in males exposed to 4 mg/m(3) or greater and in females exposed to 16 mg/m(3) .
abnormal breathing , thinness , lethargy , abnormal posture , and ruffled fur were observed in rats exposed to 16 mg/m(3) .
hematology results indicated that exposure of rats to vanadium pentoxide induced a microcytic erythrocytosis in males and females .
absolute and relative lung weights were significantly greater for 4 mg/m(3) or greater males and females than for the chamber controls as were the relative lung weights of 2 mg/m(3) males .
the estrous cycle of females exposed to 8 mg/m(3) was significantly longer than that of the chamber control group , and the number of cycling females in the 16 mg/m(3) group was reduced .
the incidences of several nonneoplastic lesions of the lung and nose were significantly increased in males and females exposed to 2 mg/m(3) or greater .
data from pulmonary function analyses indicated that a restrictive lung disease was present in male and female rats exposed to 4 mg/m(3) or greater , while an obstructive lung disease was present only in the 16 mg/m(3) groups. 3-month study in mice : groups of 10 male and 10 female mice were exposed to par
an efficent antitumor and antiviral cellular immune response requires optimal interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) secretion and perforin expression in cd8(+) t cells .
the aim of this study was to define whether cd4(+) and cd8(+) t cells from patients with undifferentiated carcinoma of nasopharyngeal type ( ucnt ) , a tumor regularly associated with the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) , have abnormal phenotype profiles , cytokine production , perforin and cd3-zeta expressions .
our data showed that cd4 and cd8 subset distribution was not grossly altered in the peripheral blood of ucnt patients , while tumor biopsies contained an increased proportion of cd8(+) t cells .
the analysis of the cd4(+) subset showed a defect in interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) production and a moderate increase of il-10 production , a situation consistent with a th1/th2 imbalance .
we have also demonstrated that cd8(+) lymphocytes from ucnt patients had a marked impairment of ifn-gamma secretion and perforin expression .
this impairment was not related to the presence of detectable ebv dna in the plasma .
in ucnt patients , the blockade of the perforin pathway and of ifn-gamma production may constitute important mechanisms for immune escape by the tumor and for impaired control of ebv replication .
background hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) is a leading cause of death worldwide .
frequent cytogenetic abnormalities that occur in hcc suggest that tumor-modifying genes ( oncogenes or tumor suppressors ) may be driving selection for amplification or deletion of these particular genetic regions .
in many cases , however , the gene(s) that drive the selection are unknown .
although techniques such as comparative genomic hybridization ( cgh ) have traditionally been used to identify cytogenetic aberrations , it might also be possible to identify them indirectly from gene-expression studies .
a technique we have called comparative genomic microarray analysis ( cgma ) predicts regions of cytogenetic change by searching for regional gene-expression biases .
cgma was applied to hcc gene-expression profiles to identify regions of frequent cytogenetic change and to identify genes whose expression is misregulated within these regions .
results using cgma , 104 hcc gene-expression microarray profiles were analyzed .
cgma identified 13 regions of frequent cytogenetic change in the hcc samples .
ten of these regions have been detected in previous cgh studies ( +lq , -4q , +6p , -8p , +8q , -13q , -16q , -17p , +17q , +20q ) .
cgma identified three additional regions that have not been previously identified by cgh ( +5q , +12q , +19p ) .
genes located in regions of frequent cytogenetic change were examined for changed expression in the hcc samples .
conclusions our results suggest that cgma predictions using gene-expression microarray datasets are a practical alternative to cgh profiling .
in addition , cgma might be useful for identifying candidate genes within cytogenetically abnormal regions .
purpose although the adrenal gland is a common site of extrahepatic metastasis from hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) , there are no definitive guidelines for the treatment of adrenal metastasis .
this study examines the effectiveness of various treatments for this disease .
methods we retrospectively analyzed 20 patients treated for adrenal metastasis of hcc by adrenalectomy ( n = 13 ) , transarterial chemoembolization ( tace ) , or percutaneous ethanol injection therapy ( peit ) ( n = 7 ) .
results there were no significant differences in cumulative survival rates between patients given adrenalectomy and those given tace or peit , either after completing treatment for primary hcc or after the first treatment for adrenal metastasis .
six of seven patients with tumor thrombi in the inferior vena cava ( ivc ) from adrenal metastasis underwent adrenalectomy combined with intracaval thrombectomy , five of whom survived for more than 1 year after surgery , and two of whom are still alive without any recurrence more than 3 years after surgery .
peit showed good results for small adrenal metastasis .
conclusion these findings suggest that therapeutic modalities should be chosen according to the clinical features of each individual , including the size of the metastatic tumor , whether there is invasion into the ivc , the function of the remaining liver , and the existence of intra- and/or nonadrenal extrahepatic lesions .
furthermore , intracaval tumor thrombectomy could be indicated for patients with ivc thrombus if they are suitable candidates for surgery .
polo-like kinase 3 ( plk3 , alternatively termed prk ) is involved in the regulation of dna damage checkpoint as well as in m-phase function .
plk3 physically interacts with p53 and phosphorylates this tumor suppressor protein on serine-20 , suggesting that the role of plk3 in cell cycle progression is mediated , at least in part , through direct regulation of p53 .
here we show that plk3 is rapidly activated by reactive oxygen species in normal diploid fibroblast cells ( wi-38 ) , correlating with a subsequent increase in p53 protein level .
plk3 physically interacts with chk2 and the interaction is enhanced upon dna damage .
in addition , chk2 immunoprecipitated from cell lysates of daudi ( which expressed little plk3 ) is capable of stimulating the kinase activity of purified recombinant plk3 in vitro , and this stimulation is more pronounced when plk3 is supplemented with chk2 immunoprecipitated from daudi after dna damage .
furthermore , ectopic expression chk2 activates cellular plk3 .
together , our studies suggest chk2 may mediate direct activation of plk3 in response to genotoxic stresses .
an in vitro angiogenesis system was designed for screening angiogenic agonists and antagonists .
in order to obtain large quantities of cells and reproducibility , human endothelial cells with extended life spans were developed by retroviral transfection .
the resulting cells grown in a serum-free medium containing endothelial cell growth supplement ( ecgs ) have a telomerase activity , extended life spans of at least 21 passages , and an endothelial cell phenotype ( dii-acetylated-ldl upake , factor viii-related antigen , vegfr-1 and r-2 , and tissue-type plasminogen activator ( tpa) ) that resembled that of unaltered primary endothelial cells .
exceptions were ( i ) a higher expression of tpa , and ( ii ) a non-significant growth response to fgf-2 or vegf stimulation .
within three-dimensional fibrin gels , specific cell clones rapidly formed tubular structures in a more reproducible manner than those observed with low-passage primary cells .
tube formation by primary endothelial cells and those with extended life spans was dependent upon fgf-2 and ecgs , respectively .
both cell types produced fgf-2 and vegf cytokines .
increasing doses of suramin significantly decreased the size of microvessels formed by both cell lines .
these functional results indicate that a vascular matrix system containing human cells with extended life spans can be successfully utilized as an in vitro assay for antiangiogenic compounds .
the effects of glucocorticoid ( gc ) on the proliferation of dunn osteosarcoma ( os ) cells were examined under in vitro culture conditions .
dexamethasone ( dex ) inhibited the proliferation of dunn os cells in a dose-dependent manner , while the addition of anti-gc , ru486 , to the culture medium in part recovered dex-induced growth inhibition .
the number of maximum binding sites ( bmax ) and the dissociation constant ( kd ) value of glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) in dunn os cells were 19,560 sites/cell and 5.2 +/- 0.8 nm , respectively .
ru486 competed with labeled dex against gr at a concentration of 10(-6) m. western blot analysis of [ 3h]dex-mesylate-labeled cell homogenate and immunohistochemical staining against gr further confirmed the presence of gr .
dex treatment of dunn os cells resulted in apoptosis with the characteristic internucleosomal dna cleavage shown by the dna ladder pattern in agarose gel electrophoresis .
these data demonstrate that gc inhibits the proliferation of dunn os cells via gr , for which one possible mechanism in vitro is induction of apoptosis .
steroid hormone receptors , including estrogen receptor-alpha ( eralpha ) , are ligand-activated transcription factors , and hormone binding leads to depletion of receptor levels via preteasome-mediated degradation .
nedd8 ( neural precursor cell-expressed developmentally down-regulated ) is an ubiquitin-like protein essential for protein processing and cell cycle progression .
we recently demonstrated that ubiquitin-activating enzyme ( uba)3 , the catalytic subunit of the nedd8-activating enzyme , inhibits eralpha transcriptional activity .
here we report that uba3-mediated inhibition of eralpha transactivation function is due to increased receptor protein turnover .
coexpression of uba3 with eralpha increased receptor degradation by the 26s proteasome .
inhibition of nedd8 activation and conjugation diminished polyubiquitination of eralpha and blocked proteasome-mediated degradation of receptor protein .
the antiestrogen ici 182,780 is known to induce er degradation .
in human mcf7 breast cancer cells modified to contain a disrupted nedd8 pathway , ici 182,780 degradation of eralpha was impaired , and the antiestrogen was ineffective at inhibiting cell proliferation .
this study provides the first evidence linking nuclear receptor degradation with the nedd8 pathway and the ubiquitin-proteasome system , suggesting that the two pathways can act together to modulate eralpha turnover and cellular responses to estrogens .
based on our observation that an intact nedd8 pathway is essential for the antiproliferation activity of the ici 182,780 in eralpha positive breast cancer cells , we propose that disruptions in the nedd8 pathway provide a mechanism by which breast cancer cells acquire antiestrogen resistance while retaining expression of eralpha .
purpose the difference in radiosensitivity between two isogenic tumour cell lines was evaluated to determine whether factors such as sublethal and potentially damage repair , dna double-strand break repair and fidelity of repair can be related to differences in radiosensitivity .
materials and methods the cell lines used were the ovarian carcinoma a2780s and a radiation-resistant derivative a2780cp .
radiation response was measured in terms of cell survival , recovery of sublethal ( sld ) and potentially lethal damage ( pld ) , induction of and recovery of dna strand breaks , and fidelity of dna repair using a cell-free plasmid assay .
results while a2780cp was more resistant to radiation than a2780s , it showed less ability for recovery of sld and pld .
dna strand-break induction was the same for both cell lines , while only at very high doses did a2780cp show greater dna strand-break recovery than a2780s .
fidelity of rejoining dna was significantly higher in the a2780cp cell line .
conclusion the difference in radiosensitivity between these two cell lines was not related to recovery of pld or sld or to the induction of dna damage .
it appears that fidelity of dna rejoining , which was significantly higher in the resistant cell line , may be related to the difference in radiosensitivity .
we studied the effect of oxidative stress induced by hyperoxia , hydrogen peroxide , or menadione on mouse leukemia p388 cells at early ( 4 days ) and late ( 7 days ) stages of tumor growth .
oxidative stress proved to inhibit cell division and to induce apoptosis .
seven-day leukemia cells feature lower proliferative potential and higher sensitivity to oxidative stress and platidiam .
the effects of tea polyphenols and tea pigments on cell cycle of hepatic cancer cells were studied .
hepg2 cells were incubated with 50 and 100 mg/l tea polyphenols and tea pigments for 48 h respectively .
flow cytometry , western blot and rt-pcr analysis were used .
flow cytometry analysis showed that tea polyphenols and tea pigments induced g1 arrest .
western blot analysis showed tea polyphenols and tea pigments significantly inhibited the expression of cyclin d1 protein and induced higher expression of p21wafi/cipi protein .
the result of rt-pcr analysis demonstrated that cdk4 was significantly inhibited by tea polyphenols and tea pigments .
it is concluded that the induction of cell cycle arrest may be an important mechanism of tea on cancer prevention .
a clinicopathological study of 41 cases of pituitary apoplexy in a series of 324 surgically treated pituitary adenomas is presented .
in 23 patients , the predominant operative finding was hemorrhage with or without necrosis .
however , there were 15 ( 37.7% ) cases where pale , necrotic tissue with no evidence of hemorrhage was found at surgery .
pale , necrotic material was particularly found when there was a long interval between the acute clinical event and surgery .
it is concluded that the pale , necrotic debris represents one stage in the resorption process of blood after hemorrhagic necrosis of pituitary adenomas .
this entity needs to be kept in mind especially since the material closely resemble the pultaceous material seen in craniopharyngiomas and epidermoid cysts .
dietary antioxidants , such as the carotenoids , may protect dna from oxidative damage .
this has been proposed to explain the epidemiological association between higher consumption of fruits and vegetables , which are rich in antioxidants , and lower incidence of cancer .
however , this remains to be demonstrated conclusively .
the effects of carotenoid supplementation on 1 ) baseline dna damage , 2 ) susceptibility of cellular dna to oxidative attack , and 3 ) dna repair were measured in the human lymphocyte cell line molt-17 .
baseline dna damage , susceptibility to oxidant attack ( 100 mumol/l h2o2 for 5 min at 4 degrees c ) , and disappearance of dna single-strand breaks ( ssb ) after oxidative challenge were monitored by single-cell gel electrophoresis .
dna repair patch synthesis activity in cell extracts was determined using assays that measure nucleotide incorporation during repair of oxidative lesions in template dna .
unlike single-cell gel electrophoresis , the parameters measured with these assays are not dependent on strand break religation .
there was no evidence that beta-carotene , lutein , or beta-cryptoxanthin supplementation protected cellular dna from oxidation under basal conditions or after oxidative challenge .
however , only carotenoid-supplemented cells exhibited a significant decrease in numbers of ssb over a 2-h period after treatment with h2o2 .
carotenoid supplementation did not provoke any detectable change in repair patch synthesis activity .
we conclude that supplementation with carotenoids at 8 mumol/l does not provide significant antioxidant protection for dna in molt-17 lymphocytes but may enhance recovery of cells from oxidative challenge , as measured by loss of ssb .
we argue that these data are most consistent with carotenoids acting to enhance dna strand break repair .
angiogenesis is increased in hematologic malignancies , including non-hodgkin lymphoma ( nhl ) .
elevated serum levels of two important angiogenic factors , vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) , are associated with a poor prognosis .
immunohistochemistry was used to evaluate 27 patients with nhl and bone marrow involvement ( 17 with low-grade b-cell nhl , including 7 with higher grade transformation ; 6 with intermediate-grade b-cell nhl ; and 4 with t-cell lymphoma ) .
among the 17 patients with low-grade b-cell nhl , results for 7 were positive for vegf stain ( 41.2% ) , and results were negative for all other stains for vegf receptors , bfgf , and bfgf receptors .
in the 10 patients with intermediate-grade b-cell nhl and t-cell lymphoma , all vegf staining was positive ( 100% ) , but bfgf staining was only weakly positive in 2 .
staining results for seven patients who had low-grade b-cell nhl with higher grade transformation showed that vegf staining was positive in large lymphoid cells of 5 patients and in small lymphoid cells of one patient .
staining for the receptors vegfr-1 and vegfr-2 was positive in large lymphoid cells in four and two cases , respectively .
staining for bfgf was positive in two cases of large lymphoid cells .
we concluded that vegf , but not bfgf , was associated with higher tumor grading of nhl and high-grade transformation of low-grade lymphoma .
the role of t cells in eradicating leukemic cells has been well demonstrated for chronic myeloid leukemia ( cml ) .
type 1 ( t1 ) t-cell cytokines play a major role in this antileukemic immune effect .
studies in cancer patients have demonstrated a decreased t1 cytokine production , measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) , in cultures of peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
this observation of malignancy-related suppressed t1 cytokines also occurs in untreated chronic-phase ( cp ) cml , raising the question of the influence of different cml treatment regimens on this immunosuppression .
intracellular flow cytometry ( icf ) has facilitated the evaluation of cytokines on a single-cell level .
this study analyzed t1 ( interferon-gamma ) cytokine production in purified peripheral blood t cells by icf , comparing different therapy approaches for cml .
twenty-one newly diagnosed cp cml patients were compared with 24 patients treated with interferon-alpha ( ifn-alpha ) and to 30 allogeneic bone marrow transplant ( bmt ) recipients ( bcr-abl negative by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction , and free of , or having only limited graft-versus-host disease at the time of study ) .
thirty-seven healthy controls were included .
our results showed a significantly decreased t-cell ifn-gamma synthesis in cp cml patients in relation to healthy controls ( p = 0.0007 ) .
treatment with ifn-alpha resulted in a shift from immunosuppression--documented for the group of untreated patients--to immunopotentiation , with an increase of t-cell ifn-gamma production ( p = 0.0266 ) .
notably , bmt enhanced ifn-gamma production of t cells to a level not only exceeding untreated patients ( p &lt ; 0.0001 ) but also healthy volunteers ( p &lt ; 0.0001 ) .
the observation of t1 cytokine up-regulation with ifn-alpha therapy indicates that enhanced t-cell function may be achievable in patients with cml , even in the absence of an allo-response .
modulation of the balance between pro- and antiangiogenic factors holds great promise for the treatment of a broad spectrum of human disease ranging from ischemic heart disease to cancer .
this requires both the identification of angiogenic regulators and their efficient delivery to target organs .
here , we demonstrate the use of a noncatalytic fragment of matrix metalloproteinase 2 ( termed pex ) delivered by lentiviral vectors in different angiogenesis models .
transduction of human endothelial cells with pex virus suppressed endothelial invasion and formation of capillary-like structures without affecting chemotaxis in vitro .
lentiviral delivery of pex blocked basic fibroblast growth factor-induced matrix metalloproteinase 2 activation and angiogenesis on chicken chorioallantoic membranes .
pex expression also inhibited tumor-induced angiogenesis and tumor growth in a nude mouse model .
thus , our study shows that lentiviral vectors can deliver sufficient quantities of antiangiogenic substances to achieve therapeutic effects in vivo .
the anti-breast cancer drug tamoxifen has recently been shown to cause an increase in intracellular free-ca(2+) concentrations ( [ ca(2+)](i) ) in renal tubular cells , breast cells and bladder cells .
because tamoxifen is known to alter ovary function in human patients and in rats , the present study was aimed at exploring whether tamoxifen could alter ca(2+) movement in chinese hamster ovary ( cho-k1 ) cells .
cytosolic free-ca(2+) levels in populations of cells have been explored by using fura-2 as a fluorescent ca(2+) indicator .
tamoxifen at concentrations above 1 micro m increased [ ca(2+)](i) in a concentration-dependent manner with an ec(50) value of 8 micro m. the ca(2+) signal was reduced by removing extracellular ca(2+) , but was not affected by nifedipine , verapamil , diltiazem or ici 182,780 ( an estrogen receptor antagonist ) .
pretreatment with 1 micro m thapsigargin ( an endoplasmic reticulum ca(2+) pump inhibitor ) to deplete the endoplasmic reticulum ca(2+) abolished 10 micro m tamoxifen-induced ca(2+) release .
neither inhibition of phospholipase c with 2 micro m u73122 nor depletion of ryanodine-sensitive ca(2+) stores with 50 micro m ryanodine affected tamoxifen-induced ca(2+) release .
cell proliferation assays using elisa revealed that overnight incubation with 5-10 micro m tamoxifen inhibited cell proliferation by 20% , and 20 micro m tamoxifen killed all cells .
together , the results suggest that , in cho-k1 cells , tamoxifen induced a [ ca(2+)](i) increase by causing store-ca(2+) release from the endoplasmic reticulum in an phospholipase c-independent manner , and by inducing ca(2+) influx .
the action of tamoxifen appears to be dissociated from estrogen receptor activation .
longer incubation with tamoxifen ( &gt;5 micro m ) was cytotoxic .
the identification of molecular markers related to critical biological processes during carcinogenesis may aid in the evaluation of carcinogenic potentials of chemicals and chemical mixtures .
work from our laboratory demonstrated that a single treatment with n-methyl-n'-nitro-n-nitrosoguanidine ( mnng ) enhanced spontaneous malignant transformation of the human keratinocyte cell line rhek-1 .
in contrast , chronic low-level exposure of cells to arsenic alone or in a mixture containing arsenic , cadmium , chromium , and lead inhibited malignant conversion .
to identify changes in gene expression that influence these different outcomes , cdna microarray technology was used .
analysis of multiple human arrays in mnng-transformed rhek-1 cells , designated om3 , and those treated with arsenic or the arsenic-containing metal mixture showed unique patterns of gene expression .
genes that were overexpressed in om3 included oncogenes , cell cycle regulators , and those involved in signal transduction , whereas genes for dna repair enzymes and inhibitors of transformation and metastasis were suppressed .
in arsenic-treated cells , multiple dna repair proteins were overexpressed .
mixture-treated cells showed increased expression of a variety of genes including metallothioneins and integrin 4 .
these cells showed decreased expression of oncogenes , dna repair proteins , and genes involved in the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway .
for comparison we are currently analyzing gene expression changes in rhek-1 cells transformed by other means .
the goal of these studies is to identify common batteries of genes affected by chemical modulators of the carcinogenic process .
mechanistic studies may allow us to correlate alterations in their expression with sequential stages in the carcinogenic process and may aid in the risk assessment of other xenobiotics .
purpose of this work was to synthesize several cis-/trans- isomer pairs of the platinum(ii) complexes , and study the extent and the mode of their antiproliferative activity on hela cells .
six platinum(ii) isomer pairs have a general formula cis-/trans-[pta2x2] , where a is ligand : ammonia ( nh3 ) , pyridine ( py ) ; and x is ligand : chloride ion ( cl- ) , bromide ion ( br- ) , iodide ion ( i- ) , thiocyanato ion ( scn- ) ; four compounds have different structural formulas , and these are cis-/trans-[pt(nh2oh)2(nh3)2]cl2 , and cis-/trans-pt(gly)2 , where gly is bidentate glycinato ligand .
results of the mtt assay , showed that six cis- and one trans-platinum(ii) complexes exhibited cytotoxicity ( ic50 ) ranging between 5 and 33 microm .
most of the cis-platinum(ii) isomers caused significant alteration of cell cycle phases progression , and induced apoptosis in degree that varied among different compounds , as evaluated using flowcytometry and morphological study .
spectrophotometric analysis ( aas ) indicated that there is no correlation between intracellular platinum(ii) accumulation and cytotoxicity of tested complexes .
the effects of deoxycholic acid ( dca ) and ursodeoxycholic acid ( udca ) on 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine ( phip)-induced aberrant crypt foci ( acf ) in the rat colon were examined .
the effect of these bile acids on dna adduct formation by phip in the colon was then analyzed , since the main action of phip is the formation of dna adducts and subsequent gene mutations .
for the acf study , male f344 rats were administered phip-hcl ( 75 mg/kg , 10 doses ) by gavage , and a diet containing bile acid ( 0.4% dca or udca ) was provided from 3 days before the first dose of phip for 8 weeks .
the mean number of acf per colon of dca , udca and controls were 9.9 , 2.4 and 5.5 , respectively .
the acf number was significantly increased by dca and decreased by udca ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
to examine the effect of bile acids on dna adduct formation , male f344 rats were fed a diet supplemented with bile acids ( 0.1 or 0.4% of dca and udca ) 7 days prior to the phip administration .
all rats were administered a single dose of phip-hcl ( 50 mg/kg ) by gavage and sacrificed 48 hours later .
dna adduct levels of the 0.1% udca , 0.1% dca and controls were 2.93 ( adducts/10(7) nucleotides ) , 2.65 and 1.10 , respectively .
those of 0.4% udca , 0.4% dca and controls were 1.64 , 1.30 and 1.00 , respectively .
the phip-dna adduct level was significantly increased by administration of 0.1% udca , 0.1% dca ( p&lt;0.05 ) and 0.4% udca ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
the increasing effect of both dca and udca on phip-induced dna adduct formation was unexpected , and was not directly associated with acf formation .
previously we have found deregulation of collagen metabolism in human pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer tissues .
insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) is known to stimulate collagen biosynthesis through interaction with igf-i receptor .
igf-i binding proteins ( bps ) regulate the activity of igf-i .
we investigated whether serum and tissue igf-i and igf-bps as well as tissue igf-i receptor expression may reflect disturbances of collagen metabolism in patients with pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer .
in pancreatitis tissue , a significant increase in igf-i and igfbp-3 content was accompanied by a distinct increase in igf-i receptor expression , compared to control pancreas tissue .
in contrast , serum from patients with pancreatitis did not show significant increases in igf-i and igfbp-3 levels , however , significant increases in igfbp-1 level ( 2.5 fold ) .
moreover , a distinct decrease in radioactive igf-binding to the bps , compared to control serum , was found .
pancreatic cancer tissue and serum of patients with pancreatic cancer showed significant increases in igf-i , igfbp-3 and igfbp-1 content , accompanied by dramatic increases in igf-i tissue receptor expression , compared to controls .
in serum of patients with pancreatic cancer distinct increases in radioactive igf-binding to 46 kda bp , compared to control serum , were observed .
the data suggest that disturbances in tissue collagen metabolism during pancreatic diseases may result from deregulation of igf-i homeostasis and that elevated serum levels of igf-i , igfbp-3 and igfbp-1 may serve as markers of pancreatic cancer .
the epidemiologic association between asbestos exposure and human malignant mesothelioma is well established .
however , the molecular mechanisms linking asbestos exposure of humans and the subsequent mesothelioma formation is not well understood .
the most frequent genetic changes found so far in human malignant mesothelioma ( hmm ) are deletions and point mutations in the tumor suppressor genes p16ink4a and nf2 .
whereas homozygous deletions appear to be the predominant mechanism leading to p16/cdkn2a inactivation , inactivating point mutations coupled with allelic loss mainly occur at the nf2 locus .
in the present study , asbestos-treated human mesothelial cells ( hmc ) , sv40-transformed human mesothelial cells ( met-5a ) and a human mesothelioma cell line ( colo ) were investigated for genetic changes of cell cycle genes ( cyclin d1 , p16ink4a , rb1 , cdk2 ) using multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization ( mfish ) in interphase cells .
the results show that cyclin d1 is unaffected in all investigated cells .
the p16ink4a gene locus was shown to be mutated in colo cells but not in hmc .
after labeling of cdk2 and rb1 , hemizygous loss of one allele of each gene was observed in asbestos-treated hmc whereas gene amplification of these genes was detectable in met-5a and colo cells .
our data indicate that disarrangement of the rb1 dependent pathway seems to be involved in mesothelioma formation .
the cellular mechanisms of anti-androgen-induced tumor regression have not been investigated in great detail .
we have compared the induction of cell death in the androgen-dependent , non-invasive lncap prostate cancer cell line by casodex and tnf-alpha .
both agents induce a dose and time-dependent decrease in cell viability in vitro .
however , casodex does not induce classical dna fragmentation to oligonucleosomes typically induced by tnf-alpha , but rather induces cleavage to form intermediate 60 kb dna fragments .
rt-pcr based analysis demonstrates that in lncap cells casodex coordinately alters the expression of steady-state level of mrnas of several matrix metalloproteases and their cognate inhibitors ( most notably mmp2 and timp1 ) .
zymography and reverse zymography confirm that the ratio of metalloprotease(s) to inhibitor(s) is altered in favor of activation of the proteases .
in a small percentage of the treated lncap cells , the activation of the extracellular matrix ( ecm)-proteases by casodex also induces an invasive phenotype .
the acquisition of an invasive phenotype is not seen when lncap cells are treated with tnf-alpha , and is not seen when the lncap cells are treated with both compounds simultaneously , suggesting that the phenomenon may be specific to particular classes of compounds .
these observations have significant implications in the treatment of prostate cancer , since the appearance of a more aggressive phenotype following treatment is clearly undesirable .
to elucidate role of the three enzymes in hepatocarcinogenesis , hmth1 , hogg1 and hmyh , mrna expression were examined by using rt/semi-quantitative real-time pcr and 8-o-hdg levels was studied by hplc/ecd in hcc and non-tumorous liver tissue of 21 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) .
it was found that the 8-ohdg level in non-tumourous liver tissue was significantly higher than in hcc tissue ( p = 0.006 ) , and this was correlated with the degree of inflammation .
the hmth1 expression in hcc tissue was significantly higher than in non-tumorous liver tissue ( p = 0.014 ) .
inversely , the hmyh alpha expression was significantly increased ( p = 0.039 ) in non-tumorous liver tissue .
no difference was seen in hogg1 expression in non-tumorous liver and hcc tissue .
a significant linear correlation between hmth1 and hogg1 expression was found both in hcc tissue ( r = 0.809 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) and in non-tumorous liver tissue ( r = 0.883 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
our findings suggested a reactive rather than pathogenic role of the dna repair enzymes in the hepatocarcinogenesis .
objective the aims of this study were to analyse the results and long term outcome in a prospective non randomised trial of 74 patients treated by laparoscopic colo-rectal resection for cancer , and to determine wether survival and recurrence are or are not compromised by an initial laparoscopic approach .
patients and methods seventy-four patients with colo-rectal carcinoma were included in a prospective trial and treated by laparoscopic resection .
all patients were reviewed at 1 , 3 , and 6 months interval .
a median of 5 years follow up was available .
forty-eight patients ( 65% ) had more than 3 years of follow up .
results six conversions ( 8.1% ) were necessary : 2 for tumor invasion of adjacent organs , 2 for limited margin resection in lower rectal tumors , 1 for small bowel injury and 1 for obesity .
after surgery , passing flatus occurred at 34.3 +/- 16.7 h and oral intake could be reinstaured at 42.6 +/- 22 h .
mean postoperative stay was 8.2 +/- 3.4 days .
no death occurred .
the overall morbidity was about 13.5% .
the rate of late complications was 5.4% .
two port site metastasis ( 2.6% ) were seen in locally advanced carcinoma .
recurrence rate at 5 years was 0% for dukes a , 20% for dukes b , 39.2% for dukes c. survival rate at 5 years was 100% for dukes a , 80% for dukes b , and 60.7% for dukes c. these results are similar to those of conventional open surgery .
conclusion laparoscopic colorectal resection for cancer can be performed safely , with a low morbidity and rare late complications .
long term follow up ( 5 years ) assessment shows similar outcome compared with conventional surgery .
solar ultraviolet radiation is considered to be injurious rather than necessary for most organisms living on the earth .
it is reported that the risk of skin cancer in humans increases by the depletion of the ozone layer .
we have examined the genotoxicity of solar ultraviolet , especially the longer wavelength light , using drosophila .
recently , we have demonstrated that light of wavelength up to 340 nm is mutagenic on drosophila larvae .
using an excision repair-deficient drosophila strain ( mus201 ) , we have obtained results suggesting that the lesion caused in larvae by the 320 nm-light irradiation may be similar to the damage induced by irradiation at 310 nm , and that light of 330 and 340 nm may induce damage different from that induced by 310 and 320 nm-light .
to examine the difference in dna damage induced by light of a particular wavelength , we performed monochromatic irradiation on larvae of two drosophila strains ; one excision repair-deficient ( mei-9 ) and another postreplication repair-deficient ( mei-41). 310 and 320 nm-light was more mutagenic in the mei-9 strain than in mei-41 , whereas 330 and 340 nm-light was more mutagenic in mei-41 than in mei-9 .
it is demonstrated that the mei-41 gene is a homologue of the human atm gene which is responsible for a cell cycle checkpoint .
this result suggests that 310-320 nm-light induces dna damage that is subject to nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) and that 330-360 nm-light causes damage to be recognized by the cell cycle checkpoint but it is not repairable by ner .
in the course of a medicinal chemistry program aimed at discovering novel tumour-active rebeccamycin derivatives targeting dna and/or topoisomerase i , a series of analogues with the sugar residue linked to the two indole nitrogens was recently developed .
two promising drug candidates in this staurosporine-rebeccamycin hybrid series were selected for a dna-binding study reported here .
the dna interaction of the cationic indolocarbazole glycosides mp059 bearing a n,n-diethylaminoethyl side chain and mp072 containing a sugar bearing an amino group was compared with that of the uncharged analogue mp024 .
the results show that the addition of a cationic substituent , either directly on the indolocarbazole chromophore or on the carbohydrate residue , significantly reinforces the interaction of the drugs with nucleic acids .
the two cationic molecules mp059 and mp072 recognise preferentially sequences containing gpt.apc and tpg.cpa steps but they do not inhibit topoisomerase i , in contrast to the parent uncharged derivative mp024 which stimulates dna single strand breaks by topoisomerase i. the cytotoxic activity of the indolocarbazole derivatives bearing positively charged groups is one order of magnitude higher than that of the neutral compound mp024 .
the high cytotoxic potential can be attributed to the enhanced dna binding and sequence recognition capacity of the cationic compounds .
the study provides useful information for further structure-activity relationship studies in the indolocarbazole series .
acetyl-11-keto-beta-boswellic acid ( akba ) is a naturally occurring pentacyclic triterpene isolated from the gum resin exudate from the stem of the tree boswellia serrata ( frankincense ) .
akba has been recently identified as a novel , orally active , non-redox and non-competitive 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor that also inhibits topisomerase i and ii in vitro .
because natural pentacyclic triterpenes have an antiproliferative effect against different tumor types , we investigated the effects of akba on the proliferation of 11 primary cell cultures established from human surgical specimens of meningiomas , common central nervous system tumors .
treatment of meningioma cells by akba revealed a potent cytotoxic activity with half-maximal inhibitory concentrations in the range of 2-8 microm .
at similar , physiologically achievable concentrations , akba rapidly ( within minutes ) and potently inhibited the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 ( erk-1 and erk-2 ) in meningioma cells stimulated with platelet-derived growth factor bb .
high expression level of 5-lo was detected in primary meningioma cells and surgical specimens by immunoblotting analysis , suggesting the possible role of 5-lo in meningioma tumorigenesis .
considering the critical importance of the erk-1/2 signal transduction pathway not only in meningiomas but in other human neoplasms , the interruption of signaling through this evolutionarily conserved pathway might be one of the mechanisms by which akba induces suppression of proliferation and apoptosis of different tumor types .
common use of antimutagens and anticarcinogens in everyday life is an effective measure for preventing human cancer and genetic diseases .
antioxidant properties of tea have vast potential as protective agents against diverse toxic effects .
the present study was aimed to evaluate the role of aqueous clonal tea extracts ( green tea , oolong tea and black tea ) in modulating the genotoxic damage induced by cyclophosphamide ( cp ) , a commonly used chemotherapeutic drug and a well-known mutagen and clastogen .
all the three tea extracts at 1 and 2% concentration did not increase the frequency of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes ( mpe ) in bone marrow cells of mice when administered individually .
the tea extracts decreased the micronuclei ( mn ) induced by cp .
therefore , regular intake of tea may improve the antioxidant status in in vivo and thereby reduce the risk of cancer and coronary heart disease .
to investigate whether the bcl-2 gene family is involved in modulating mechanism of apoptosis and change of cell cycle protein induced by curcumin in acute myeloid leukemia hl-60 cell line and primary acute myelogenous leukemic cells , the bcl-2 family member mcl-1 , bax and bak and cell cycle proteins including p27kipl , p21wafl , cyclin d3 and prbp- were selected and their expression detected by sabc immuno-histochemical stain method .
the attitude of sub-g1 peak in dna histogram was determined by fcm .
the tunel positive cell percentage was identified by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase ( tdt)-mediated biotin dunp end labeling technique .
it was found that when hl-60 cells were treated with 25 mumol/l curcumin for 24 h , the expression level of mcl-1 was down-regulated , but that of bax and bak up-regulated time-dependently .
there was significant difference in the expression level of mcl-1 , bax and bak between the curcumin-treated groups and control group ( p &lt ; 0.05-0.01 ) .
at the same time , curcumin had no effect on progress of cell cycle in primaty acute myelogenous leukemia at newly diagnosis , but could increase the peak of sub-g1 ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) , and down-regulate the expression of mcl-1 and up-regulate the expression of bax and bak with the difference being statistically significant .
the expression of p27kipl , p21wafl and prbp- were elevated and that of cyclin d3 decreased in the presence of curcumin .
these findings suggested that the bcl-2 gene family indeed participated in the regulatory process of apoptosis induced by curcumin in hl-60 cells and aml cells .
curcumin can induce apoptosis of primary acute myelogenous leukemic cells and disturb cell cycle progression of hl-60 cells .
the mechanism appeared to be mediated by perturbing g0/g1 phases checkpoints which associated with up-regulation of p27kipl , p21wafl and prbp- expression , and down-regulation of cyclin d3 .
to evaluate the effects of adenovirus ( ad)-mediated transfer of p53 and p16 on human bladder cancer cells ej , ej were transfected with ad-p53 and ad-p16 .
cell growth , morphological change , cell cycle , apoptosis were measured using mtt assay , flow cytometry , cloning formation , immunocytochemical assays .
ad-p16 or ad-p53 alone could inhibit the proliferating activity of ej cells in vitro .
ad-p53 could induce apoptosis of partial ej cells .
g1 arrest was observed 72 h after infection with ad-p16 , but apoptosis was not obvious .
the transfer of ad-p16 and ad-p53 could significantly inhibit the growth of ej cells , decrease the cloning formation rate and induce apoptosis of large number of ej cells .
the occurrence time of subcutaneous tumor was delayed and the tumor volume in 4 weeks was diminished by using ad-p53 combined with ad-p16 and the difference was significant compared with using ad-p53 or ad-p16 alone .
it was suggested that the transfer of wild-type p53 and p16 could significantly inhibit the growth of human bladder cancer in vitro and in vivo .
a comparative study was undertaken between cancer of the uterine cervix ( n = 50 ) and female breast cancer ( n = 50 ) with reference to the expression of c-erbb-2 oncoprotein ( her-2/neu ) and that of epidermal growth factor receptor ( egf-r ) , both being highly homologous structurally .
expressions of egf-r and c-erbb-2 oncoprotein were viewed in breast and cervical cancer tissues by immunochemical staining .
cervical cancer cases showed much higher expression of egf-r which also revealed significant association with the expression of c-erbb-2 oncoprotein and tumour grading .
among breast cancer cases , over-expression of egf-r correlated significantly with metastasis of lymph node ; and expression of c-erbb-2 oncoprotein showed a significant relationship with histological grading of the tumour .
moreover , an association was noticed between the tumour grade and the concomitant immuno positive expression of egf-r and c-erbb-2 .
our study revealed an existence of a conflicting pattern in the expression of egf-r and c-erbb-2 oncoprotein between carcinomas of the breast and uterine cervix .
transforming growth factor-beta1 ( tgf-beta1 ) exerts potent immunosuppressive effects .
in this study , we investigated the potential role of tgf-beta1 produced by hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) cell lines in immunosuppression mechanisms .
using the mv1lu cell-growth inhibition assay and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) , we detected optimal levels of tgf-beta1 in the culture supernatants conditioned by the hcc cell lines plc/prf/5 , hep3b , and hepg2 .
to determine the biological activity of tgf-beta1 in the supernatants , we examined the effects of the culture supernatants on the production of interferon ( ifn)-gamma induced during the culture of peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmcs ) stimulated with interleukin ( il)-12 .
ifn-gamma production of il-12-stimulated pbmcs in the 1:1 dilution of the acid-activated conditioned medium of plc/prf/5 , hep3b , and hepg2 reduced to 14.7 +/- 0.8 , 17.3 +/- 9.0 , and 35.9 +/- 14.6% , respectively , compared with the value in the culture with control medium ( complete culture medium ) .
these results suggest that hcc cells producing tgf-beta1 may reduce the generation or activation of cytotoxic t lymphocytes ( ctl ) and natural killer ( nk ) cells , and thus could enhance their ability to escape immune-mediated surveillance .
introduction cell-cell interaction is an essential component of atherosclerotic plaque development .
activated monocytes appear to play a central role in the development of atherosclerosis , not only through foam cell formation but also via the production of various growth factors that induce proliferation of different cell types that are involved in the plaque development .
using serum free co-culture method , we determined the effect of monocytes on endothelial cell proliferation .
methods endothelial cell proliferation is determined by the amount of [ 3h]thymidine incorporated in to the dna .
basic fibroblast growth factor ( b-fgf ) , vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) and interleukin-8 ( il-8 ) levels in the conditioned medium were determined by elisa .
results conditioned medium from unactivated monocytes partially inhibited endothelial cell proliferation , whereas conditioned medium from activated monocytes promoted endothelial cell proliferation .
the mitogenic effect of conditioned medium derived from activated monocytes is due to the presence of b-fgf , vegf and il-8 .
neutralizing antibodies against b-fgf , vegf and il-8 partially reversed the mitogenic effect of conditioned medium derived from activated monocytes .
when b-fgf , vegf and il-8 were immunoprecipitated from conditioned medium derived from activated monocytes , it is less mitogenic to endothelial cells .
conclusion activated monocytes may play an important role in the development of atherosclerotic plaque by producing endothelial cell growth factors .
previous experiments have shown that emodin is highly active in suppressing the proliferation of several tumor cell lines .
however , it is not clear that emodin can induce growth inhibition of hepatoma cells .
we have found that emodin induces apoptotic responses in the human hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines ( hcc ) mahlavu , plc/prf/5 and hepg2 .
the addition of emodin to these three cell lines led to inhibition of growth in a time- and dose-dependent manner .
emodin generated reactive oxygen species ( ros ) in these cells which brought about a reduction of the intracellular mitochondrial transmembrane potential ( deltapsim ) , followed by the activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3 , leading to dna fragmentation and apoptosis .
our findings demonstrate that ros and the resulting oxidative stress play a pivotal role in apoptosis .
preincubation of hepatoma cell lines with the hydrogen peroxide-scavenging enzyme , catalase ( cat ) and cyclosporin a ( csa ) , partially inhibited apoptosis .
these results demonstrate that enhancement of generation of ros , deltapsim disruption and caspase activation may be involved in the apoptotic pathway induced by emodin .
tea ( camellia sinensis ) is one of the most popular beverages , consumed worldwide .
the health promoting properties of tea have been attributed to its antioxidative polyphenolic constituents and their oxidative products .
the aim of the present study was to evaluate the chemopreventive efficacy of a black tea infusion on azoxymethane induced colonic preneoplastic lesions , the aberrant crypt foci in sprague-dawley rats .
rats were injected with azoxymethane ( 15mg/kg.b.w. ) and received oral administration of 1% and 2% ( w/v ) tea infusions from the 1(st)day of carcinogen application .
the treatment was continued for 12 weeks .
the colons were then assessed for aberrant crypt foci and compared with the untreated carcinogen control group .
in situ cell proliferation and in situ apoptosis were also estimated using brdu incorporation and the tunel method , respectively .
aberrant crypt foci were reduced significantly ( by 44% in the 1% tea-treated and by about 40% in 2% tea-treated group ) .
significant decrease in proliferation and increase in apoptosis suggest a possible interplay between the two processes resulting in inhibition of colon carcinogenesis by black tea .
in the present study we examined the effects of menadione , a redox cycling agent , on structural changes of human osteosarcoma line 143b cells .
it has been previously reported that menadione can cause necrotic or apoptotic cell death in a concentration- depending manner .
in our experimental model , cells were treated with 100 microm menadione for 24 hours .
using electron microscopy technique cells carrying three kinds of morphological changes were detected : necrotic cells , apoptotic cells and those demonstrating a co-existence of apoptotic and necrotic features in one single cell .
resveratrol , a phytoalexin found in grapes and wine , has been shown to exhibit a wide range of pharmacological properties and is believed to play a role in the chemoprevention of human cancer .
resveratrol has also been shown to induce antiproliferation and apoptosis of several leukemia cell lines .
in the present study , we investigated the effect of resveratrol in adult t cell leukemia .
our present observations showed that resveratrol induced growth inhibition in all five human t cell lymphotrophic virus-1-infected cell lines examined , with 50% effective dose of 10.4-85.6 mm .
in the resveratrol-treated cells , induction of apoptosis was confirmed by annexin v-based analyses and morphological changes .
the most surprising observation was that resveratrol treatment resulted in a gradual decrease in the expression of survivin , an antiapoptotic protein , during cell apoptosis .
these findings indicate that resveratrol inhibits the growth of human t cell lymphotrophic virus-1-infected cell lines , at least in part , by inducing apoptosis mediated by downregulation in survivin expression .
in view of the accumulating evidence that survivin may be an important determinant of a clinical response in adult t cell leukemia , our present findings have led to the suggestion that resveratrol , a common constituent of the human diet , merits further investigation as a potential therapeutic agent for this incurable disease .
intra-arterial infusion with cisplatin ( cddp ) and bleomycin ( blm ) was carried out in 21 patients with locally recurrent uterine cervical cancer who were previously treated with irradiation alone .
patients were treated with a bolus infusion into both internal iliac arteries of 50 mg/m2 of cddp and 30 mg/m2 of blm .
two to four courses of the infusion therapy were given to each patient , and the response rate , the tumor and serum drug concentrations , and the cell kinetics in tumor tissue were evaluated .
the response rate ( cr+pr ) was 71.4% according to the who criteria .
there was no difference , in the tumor tissue concentrations of cddp and blm between responders and nonresponders .
although the dna ploidy of tumor cells was not significantly different between the two groups before treatment , both the labeling index with brdu and the proliferation index with flow cytometry significantly increased 24 hours after treatment in responding tumors but not in nonresponding tumors .
these results show that intra-arterial infusion with cddp and blm improves the prognosis of recurrent cervical cancer and that labeling and proliferation indices may be useful for determining the response of cervical cancer to intra-arterial chemotherapy .
we have isolated rabbit kidney proximal tubular epithelial cell lines .
the selection was based on their ability to form confluent monolayers on porous supports and to maintain receptor-mediated signal transduction and ion transport , characteristic of the proximal tubule .
the isolation method consisted of several steps : ( 1 ) superficial cortical proximal tubule segments were microdissected and cultured on a matrix-coated porous support until cells formed a confluent monolayer ; ( 2 ) primary cultures showing hormone-regulated ion transport typical for the proximal tubule were selected and co-cultured with irradiated fibroblasts ; and ( 3 ) the epithelial cells surviving after several passages were expanded and passaged on porous substrates .
most of the cell lines developed in this manner were obtained by co-culture with irradiated fibroblasts producing a recombinant retrovirus encoding sv40 large t antigen and g418 resistance .
however , sv40 t antigen expression was not essential for immortalization , since neither t antigen nor g418 resistance was detected in the isolated cell lines and co-culture with non-producing 3t3 cells gave similar results .
one cell line ( vept ) has been characterized in some detail with respect to morphological , biochemical , and ion transport properties .
this line forms confluent monolayers with apical microvilli , tight junctions , and convolutions of the basolateral plasma membrane .
once confluent , monolayers maintain conductances of 25 to 32 ms/cm2 for several weeks in culture and possess phlorizin-sensitive short-circuit current ( isc ) in glucose containing media , indicative of apical na(+)-glucose co-transport. vept cells also retain receptor and signaling mechanisms for angiotensin ii ( ang ii ) .
apical and basal ang ii and 5,6-epoxy-eicosatrienoic acid ( 5,6-eet ) modulate the isc in a manner similar to primary cultures .
the cell lines share with primary cultures expression of the cytokeratins k8 , k10/k11 , and k19 ( "nomenclature " [ 21] ) .
they also retain several receptor and signal transduction mechanisms .
for example , ang ii , arachidonate , bradykinin , 5,6-eet , parathyroid hormone ( residues 1 through 34 ) , and purine nucleotides increase cytosolic ca2+ , pth elevates camp levels , and ang ii enhances proximal tubule-specific arachidonic acid metabolism .
in human fibroblasts , the expression of sv40 large t antigen is known to cause a variety of chromosomal aberrations and especially dicentric chromosomes .
in some cases , the later aberrations have been reported to be reversible telomeric associations .
we report here aberration and chromosome number studies of twenty-nine t antigen positive lineages , studied from their initiation by transfection of t antigen sequences into human diploid fibroblasts , until crisis or immortalization occurred or , in some cases until the lines became tumorigenic in nude mice .
the data show that t antigen consistently produced chromosomal instability of both number and structure by an active process that began before transformation indicators were positive and continued throughout neoplastic progression .
the most frequently observed aberrations were dicentric chromosomes , which were shown to be true dicentrics by examination by in situ hybridization with telomeric sequences .
these data are consistent with the hypothesis that t antigen causes human fibroblasts to become neoplastically transformed by successive rounds of chromosomal mutation and lineage evolution .
basal cell hyperplasia classically has been described as having bland cytologic features .
during the past 2 years , we have seen 12 cases ( 11 in consultation ) with atypical features that were confused with adenocarcinoma of the prostate .
eleven of these 12 cases contained prominent nucleoli mimicking carcinoma ; in the 12th case , nuclei were enlarged , hyperchromatic , and moderately pleomorphic .
immunohistochemistry with antibodies against high-molecular-weight cytokeratin ( 34 beta e12 ) was performed in nine of the cases , verifying their basal cell nature .
additional findings in these cases were necrotic intraluminal secretions ( two cases ) , immature squamous metaplasia ( two cases ) , peculiar hyaline cytoplasmic globules ( two cases ) , adenosis ( one case ) , markedly atypical nuclei of uncertain nature occurring elsewhere in the specimen ( one case ) , and intraluminal blue mucin ( two cases ) .
we analyzed nine cases of typical basal cell hyperplasia , all of which showed classic features of basal cell hyperplasia with benign cytology .
both atypical and classical basal cell hyperplasia were frequently infiltrated by lymphocytes such that the cytologic changes could not be attributable to inflammation .
atypical basal cell hyperplasia must be differentiated from ordinary adenocarcinoma of the prostate , prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia , and basaloid carcinoma ( adenoid cystic carcinoma ) of the prostate .
the telomerase activity and the senescence profile of cultured breast fibroblasts from normal human interstitial and malignant stromal tissue were studied in comparison with their proliferation and differentiation pattern .
fibroblasts were grown either in the presence or absence of a conditioned medium ( cm ) obtained from cultures of the oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer mcf-7 cell line .
at different passages ( from the 2nd up to the 48th ) , fibroblasts were examined for the telomerase activity by the telomerase repeats amplification protocol ( trap ) assay , for proliferation profile by ki-67 antigen expression , and the myofibroblast or smooth muscle cell-like differentiation pattern by immunofluorescence with monoclonal antibodies specific for smooth muscle markers .
serial passages of fibroblasts from normal or tumour breast reveal that the relationship between the levels of telomerase activity and phenotypic/proliferation profile changes with cell subcultivation in a different manner in the two cell populations .
the fibroblasts from normal tissue completed 12 passages in a cm-independent way prior to senescence whereas fibroblasts from tumour stroma senescence were attained after 48 passages .
these cells showed a marked decrease of telomerase activity , growth rate and smooth muscle alpha-actin expressing myofibroblasts after the 32nd passage .
cm treatment of this fibroblast population induces a decline in the myofibroblast content , which precedes the changes in telomerase activity .
passaged fibroblasts from normal breast tissue can be converted to myofibroblasts upon cm treatment whereas those from tumour stroma were cm-insensitive .
taken together our data suggest that a heterogeneous fibroblast population with different life span is activated/recruited in the breast interstitium and poses the problem of a unique activation/recruitment of fibroblasts in neoplastic conditions .
contradictory results have been reported regarding the association between vascularity ( used as an index of angiogenesis ) and thrombospondin-1 ( tsp-1 ) in human tumours .
in previous studies , the reported association was based on the estimated average tsp-1 value per tumour , with a sufficient number of specimens collectively analysed per tumour type .
given the extent of intra-tumour heterogeneity , we determined the association between tsp-1 and vascularity within individual specimens , based on the average values of tsp-1 and vascularity in 10-20 pre-selected areas per tumour .
cells expressing tsp-1 mrna were visualised by in situ hybridisation and quantified by point counting .
vascularity was quantified by point counting and vessel density of von willebrand factor-positive vessels .
in 10 ductal breast carcinomas , a direct correlation between tsp-1 and vascularity was found in 4 tumours , no correlation in 3 and an inverse correlation in 3 .
the effect of tsp-1 on endothelial cell migration in vitro was assessed in the boyden chamber assay .
tsp-1 stimulated cell migration at low concentrations ( 0.1-10 microg/ml ) and was inhibitory at high concentrations ( 25-100 microg/ml ) .
these results suggest that tsp-1 may elicit a concentration-dependent , bi-phasic , effect on angiogenesis .
angiogenic factors produced by monocytes-macrophages are involved in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory disorders characterized by persistent angiogenesis .
the possibility was tested that interleukin-8 ( il-8 ) , which is a cytokine that is chemotactic for lymphocytes and neutrophils , is also angiogenic .
human recombinant il-8 was potently angiogenic when implanted in the rat cornea and induced proliferation and chemotaxis of human umbilical vein endothelial cells .
angiogenic activity present in the conditioned media of inflamed human rheumatoid synovial tissue macrophages or lipopolysaccharide-stimulated blood monocytes was equally blocked by antibodies to either il-8 or tumor necrosis factor-alpha .
an il-8 antisense oligonucleotide specifically blocked the production of monocyte-induced angiogenic activity .
these data suggest a function for macrophage-derived il-8 in angiogenesis-dependent disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis , tumor growth , and wound repair .
we have observed previously that treatment of plateau-phase l5178y murine lymphoblasts in vitro with 2'-deoxycoformycin plus deoxyadenosine ( dcf/dado ) can inhibit the repair of x-irradiation-induced dna single-strand breaks ( ssb ) in these cells and that this effect is associated with synergistic cell kill .
in this study we examined the effect of a combination treatment of plateau-phase l5178y cells with bleomycin ( blm ) plus dcf/dado .
incubation of blm-treated cells with dcf/dado resulted in significant inhibition of the repair of blm-induced dna ssb .
however , an additive , but not a synergistic , increase in cell kill was observed when cells were treated with a combination of blm plus dcf/dado .
there is increasing evidence for the implication of tumor-derived angiogenic and anti-angiogenic factors in controlling tumor growth in vivo .
in this study , we documented the production of inhibitors of angiogenesis by pancreatic cancer cells and examined how changes in the balance between pro- and anti-angiogenic factors regulate tumor growth in vivo .
the human pancreatic cancer cell line hs-776t ( hs-w ) produces slow-growing tumors in scid mice .
cells of a variant form ( hs-r ) of hs-776t produced faster-growing tumors compared to hs-w .
characterization of hs-w and hs-r cells in vitro showed similar proliferation rates and production of the angiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) .
analyzes of anti-angiogenic factors showed comparable levels of angiostatin and thrombospondin 1 and 2 , but endostatin was only detected in conditioned media of hs-w cells and was absent in hs-r .
cell proliferation was similar in both tumor types in vivo , whereas hs-w tumors demonstrated increased apoptosis with a high percentage of apoptotic endothelial cells ( ec ) .
subsequently , vegf was over-expressed in hs-776t cells ( hs-vf ) , resulting in rapidly growing tumors and lowering tumor and ec apoptosis .
collectively , our study confirms that tumor growth is dependent on its ability to increase the angiogenic stimulus or to reduce the amounts of endogenous anti-angiogenic factors .
we have examined the effect of fk506 on the adriamycin sensitivity of the multidrug resistant human chronic myelocytic leukemia cell line ( k562/adm ) .
in k562/adm cells , 1.0 microgram/ml fk506 reversed the resistance of adriamycin , and increased the ic50 value for adriamycin up to 17 fold .
however , ic50 value for the parent cells ( k562 ) increased only 1.5 fold .
by cell cycle analysis , the accumulation in late s-g2m phase was confirmed on k562/adm cells , treated with 1.0 microgram/ml fk506 and low-dose of adriamycin .
cyclosporin a ( csa ) could also restored the adriamycin sensitivity in the k562/adm cells , as previously reported. 1.0 microgram/ml fk506 as well as csa significantly increased radioactive adriamycin accumulation in k562/adm cells and blocked [ 3h]azidopien photoaffinity labeling of p-glycoprotein .
these results suggest that 1.0 microgram/ml fk506 could reverse the adriamycin resistance in a mdr human leukemia cells through the interaction with p-glycoprotein .
objectives epiphyseal cartilage is a barrier to osteosarcoma invasion , however the mechanisms behind this resistance remain unclear .
the aim of this study was to examine the chronological and spatial patterns of osteosarcoma growth and invasion of local tissue structures including epiphyseal cartilage .
methods we used an in vivomouse model of osteosarcoma to histologically examine tumors at different stages of disease progression .
we compared the pattern of osteosarcoma penetration of epiphyseal cartilage with the expression pattern of two potent mediators of angiogenesis ; proangiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) and antiangiogenic pigment epithelium-derived factor ( pedf ) .
results epiphyseal cartilage remained intact across its entire length in all sections examined , despite increasing tumor size as well as intra- and extraosseous destruction .
in the most advanced cases , only the proangiogenic lowermost layers of the hypertrophic zone of the growth plate were eroded .
this corresponded with the growth plate layers which highly expressed the angiogenic factor vegf .
in contrast , the resting , proliferative and upper hypertrophic layers were resistant to osteosarcoma invasion in all cases .
this corresponded to the layers with the highest expression of the potent antiangiogenic factor pedf .
conclusion epiphyseal cartilage is resistant to local invasion by osteosarcoma .
the balance of angiogenesis , influenced by pro- and antiangiogenic factors , is likely to play an important role in this resistance .
mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress have been implicated in cellular senescence , apoptosis , aging and aging-associated pathologies .
telomere shortening and genomic instability have also been associated with replicative senescence , aging and cancer .
here we show that mitochondrial dysfunction leads to telomere attrition , telomere loss , and chromosome fusion and breakage , accompanied by apoptosis .
an antioxidant prevented telomere loss and genomic instability in cells with dysfunctional mitochondria , suggesting that reactive oxygen species are mediators linking mitochondrial dysfunction and genomic instability .
further , nuclear transfer protected genomes from telomere dysfunction and promoted cell survival by reconstitution with functional mitochondria .
this work links mitochondrial dysfunction and genomic instability and may provide new therapeutic strategies to combat certain mitochondrial and aging-associated pathologies .
we present a new cell line , ej established from an invasive endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the uterine corpus in a 56-year-old patient .
the cells show rapid growth in culture with a doubling time of 16 h and high migration activity .
monolayer-cultured cells were polygonal in shape showing a tendency to pile up without contact inhibition .
subcutaneous transplantation of the ej cells into nude mice formed solid tumors that were histologically diagnosed as adenocarcinoma , whereas no metastasis was observed .
cultured ej cells produced tissue polypeptide antigen ( ipa ) .
genetic and molecular analyses revealed high telomerase activity but not estrogen receptor alpha expression .
using the dna sequencing technique , we have screened ej cells for p53 mutation in exon 5 to 8 but no mutation of p53 was observed .
this cell line appears to represent the development of a more malignant clone with divergent receptor function and growth behavior , and provides us with an interesting new tool for the study of tumorigenesis in the human endometrium .
we have studied the mutagenic specificity of abasic sites using the yeast oligonucleotides transformation assay .
we introduced oligonucleotide containing a natural abasic site and a tetrahydrofuran abasic site into rev1 mutants , rev1aa , which contains mutations of asp467 and glu468 residues of rev1p to ala in order to inactivate dcmp transferase activity , and rev1 delta , which lacks its whole coding sequence .
the transformation efficiencies of rev1aa with abasic-containing oligonucleotides were lower than those of b7528 , a strain proficient in rev1 gene , but much higher than rev1 delta mutant .
sequence analysis opposite the lesions showed that the mutation spectra were different among these three strains .
vascular endothelial growth factor a ( vegf-a ) and its receptor tyrosine kinases located on endothelial cells seem to play an important role in the multistep pathway of angiogenesis .
su5416 is a small molecule which inhibits angiogenesis by acting as an inhibitor of vegf receptor-2 tyrosine kinase .
we have developed a reproducible murine model for neuroblastoma , a childhood cancer , based on s.c. xenotransplantation of sh-sy5y neuroblastoma cells .
we found that sh-sy5y cells expressed vegf-a on both the mrna and protein levels , that plasma concentrations of vegf-a were significantly elevated in animals with neuroblastoma with a volume &gt ; 1.4 ml , and that there was a correlation between vegf-a levels in plasma and tumor size in untreated tumor-bearing animals .
treatment with su5416 reduced the growth of neuroblastoma tumors by 65% without apparent toxicity .
su5416 treatment also suppressed tumor angiogenesis , despite an increase in plasma vegf-a levels per ml tumor volume during therapy .
our experimental data suggest that the angiogenesis inhibitor su5416 may be beneficial in the treatment of solid tumors of childhood such as neuroblastoma .
epidermal growth factor ( egf ) and transforming growth factor alpha ( tgf alpha ) content was measured in normal ovaries and benign ovarian tumours .
epidermal growth factor was present in 12.7% of normal ovaries , with a range 0.030-0.533 ng/mg dna , and in 31.8% of benign ovarian tumours , with a range 0.1335-2.080 ng/ml dna .
tgf alpha was present in 84.5% of normal ovaries , with a range of values from 0.037-18.2 ng/mg dna , and in 84.1% of benign ovarian tumours , with a range of 0.083-195 ng/mg dna .
the tgf alpha content in post menopausal benign ovarian tumours was significantly higher ( p &lt ; 0.0001 ) than tgf alpha in the pre-menopausal normal ovarian group .
the frequency of detection and levels of tgf alpha measured were significantly higher than those of egf in the normal ovary group ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) and also in the benign ovarian group ( p &lt ; 0.005 ) .
we conclude that tgf alpha is the predominant growth factor present in normal ovaries and benign ovarian tumours .
the effects of high and low dietary fat ( 20% vs. 0.5% corn oil ) , and of the prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor indomethacin ( 0.005% w/w ) , on tumour incidence , tumour growth , hormone-receptor status and growth-factor expression were examined in dimethylbenzanthracene ( dmba)-induced rat breast cancer .
the high dietary-fat group showed a significantly higher tumour incidence , larger tumour size and larger number of bromodeoxyuridine(brdu)-positive cells of tumours as compared with those in the low dietary-fat group .
indomethacin reduced tumour incidence significantly , but conversely increased the tumour size and the number of brdu-positive cells in both the high and the low dietary-fat groups .
no significant difference was noted in the hormone-receptor status of the tumours .
growth factors ( tgf-alpha and igf-ii ) were somewhat highly expressed in the high dietary-fat group as compared with the low dietary-fat group , but indomethacin rather reduced the growth-factor expression .
it is concluded that high dietary fat stimulates tumour incidence and tumour proliferation , while indomethacin has dual effects : a stimulating effect on tumour proliferation , but an inhibiting effect on tumour incidence .
it is also suggested that hormone-receptor status and growth-factor expression do not play an important role in their stimulating effects on tumour proliferation .
previous studies have shown that the e7 gene of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) type 16 or 18 alone was sufficient for immortalization of human foreskin epithelial cells ( hfe ) and that the efficiency was increased in cooperation with the respective e6 gene , whereas the hpv6 e6 or e7 gene was not active in hfe .
to detect weak immortalizing activities of the hpv6 genes , cells were infected with recombinant retroviruses containing hpv genes , alone and in homologous and heterologous combinations .
the hpv6 genes , alone or together ( hpv6 e6 plus hpv6 e7 ) , were not able to immortalize cells .
however the hpv6 e6 gene , in concert with hpv16 e7 , increased the frequency of immortalization threefold over that obtained with hpv16 e7 alone .
interestingly , 6 of 20 clones containing the hpv16 e6 gene and the hpv6 e7 gene were immortalized , whereas neither gene alone was sufficient .
thus , the hpv6 e6 and e7 genes have weak immortalizing activities which can be detected in cooperation with the more active transforming genes of hpv16 .
acute expression of the hpv6 and hpv16 e6 and e7 genes revealed that only hpv16 e7 was able to stimulate the proliferation of cells in organotypic culture , resulting in increased expression of the proliferative cell nuclear antigen and the formation of a disorganized epithelial layer .
additionally , combinations of genes that immortalized hfe cells ( hpv16 e6 plus hpv16 e7 , hpv16 e6 plus hpv6 e7 , and hpv6 e6 plus hpv16 e7 ) also stimulated proliferation .
the oncogenic potential of a human papillomavirus type 16 ( hpv16 ) variant cloned from normal human cervical keratinocytes has been tested in vitro using primary rodent epithelial cells and human cervical keratinocytes .
the hpv16 variant was able to extend the lifespan of , but failed to immortalize , human keratinocytes .
it could however cooperate with an activated ras oncogene to transform primary rodent cells .
radioimmunoprecipitation assays of the rodent cells showed that they expressed the e7 protein .
dna sequence analysis of the urr/e6/e7 and e5 regions of the hpv16 showed them to be fully functional , but a deletion in the viral e2 open reading frame was detected .
this truncated e2 only weakly stimulated transcription of the viral regulatory region .
complementation assays using the hpv16 variant and a full-length e2 enabled the cloned variant to immortalize human cervical keratinocytes with wild-type efficiency .
these results suggest that other viral gene products in addition to e6/e7 may play an important role in the in vitro immortalization of cervical keratinocytes in hpv16 and the development of cervical cancer .
the " high-risk " human papillomavirus types 16 ( hpv-16 ) and 18 ( hpv-18 ) have been etiologically implicated in the majority of human cervical carcinomas .
in these cancers , the viral dnas are often integrated into the host genome so that expression of the e1 and the e2 genes is lost , suggesting that disruption of these regulatory genes plays an important role in carcinogenic progression .
previous studies defining the viral genes affecting hpv-16 transformation functions have used the " prototype " viral genome , which was cloned from a human cervical carcinoma and later discovered to harbor a mutation in the e1 gene .
in this study , we have corrected this mutation and have evaluated the effect of mutations of either the e1 or the e2 gene on the efficiency of hpv-16 immortalization of human keratinocytes .
mutation of either the e1 gene or the e2 gene in the background of a " wild-type " hpv-16 genome markedly increased immortalization capacity .
mutations were also generated in the e2-binding sites located upstream of the p97 promoter , which directs synthesis of the viral e6 and e7 transforming genes .
e2 negatively regulates the p97 promoter through binding at adjacent sites .
surprisingly , the mutation of these sites only partially relieved the negative effect of e2 on viral immortalization , implicating additional mechanisms in the e2 repression of viral immortalization functions .
our results provide genetic evidence that the e1 and e2 gene products each can repress hpv-16 immortalization and support the hypothesis that a selective growth advantage is provided by integration of the viral genome in a manner that causes the loss of expression of either e1 or e2 .
human papillomavirus type 16 ( hpv16 ) e6 and e7 are selectively retained and expressed in hpv16-associated human genital tumors .
e6 is active in several cell culture assays , including transformation of nih 3t3 cells , trans activation of the adenovirus e2 promoter , and cooperation with e7 to immortalize normal human keratinocytes .
biochemically , the hpv16 e6 protein has been shown to bind to tumor suppressor protein p53 in vitro and induce its degradation in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate .
to examine the relationship between the various biological activities of e6 and inactivation of p53 , we tested the abilities of dominant negative mutants of p53 to substitute functionally for e6 in the three cell culture assays .
while wild-type p53 inhibited keratinocyte proliferation , both mouse and human mutant p53s , in conjunction with e7 , increased proliferation of the keratinocytes , resulting in generation of immortalized lines .
however , in contrast to e6 , mutant p53 was unable to induce transformation or trans activate the adenovirus e2 promoter in nih 3t3 cells .
these results suggest that inactivation of wild-type p53 is necessary for hpv-induced immortalization of human keratinocytes and that different or additional activities are required for e6-dependent transformation and trans activation of nih 3t3 cells .
in order to determine the in vivo immune response in glioblastoma , monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies specific for inflammatory leukocytes and immunoregulatory products were utilized to stain tissue from four surgical specimens .
the more activated the inflammatory cells , the more activated the tumors appeared to be .
in the tumor with the largest infiltration ( case 3 ) , inflammatory cells were stained for interferon-gamma , interleukin-2 , interleukin-1 beta , lymphotoxin , tumor necrosis factor-alpha , and transforming growth factor-beta .
the tumor cells also expressed interleukin-1 beta , interleukin-6 , transforming growth factor-beta , tumor necrosis factor-alpha , and prostaglandin e. in contrast , in the tumor with the least inflammatory response ( case 1 ) , the tumor cells did not express any cytokines .
expression of cytokines by glioma cells was modest in the two cases with modest inflammatory responses .
cellular inflammation , primarily consisting of t cells and macrophages with few or no b cells or natural killer cells , was two- to 15-fold greater outside the tumor than within .
in contrast to leukocytes outside the tumor , which were activated and expressing class ii major histocompatibility antigens , leukocytes within the tumor parenchyma or at the tumor's edge were negative for these antigens .
in the four specimens studied here , the tumor cells themselves were also negative for class ii major histocompatibility antigens .
these findings , although preliminary , suggest that inflammatory cells within gliomas are inactivated and that glioma cells may increase the expression of immunosuppressive cytokines in response to an increased lymphocyte infiltrate .
this observation , if corroborated by more extensive studies , may help to explain the failure of immune treatments in glioblastoma multiforme .
nih-3t3 cells are non-tumorigenic when injected into athymic mice .
if these cells are mixed with an extract of basement-membrane proteins ( matrigel ) and injected s.c. , they form locally invasive and highly vascularized tumors .
cells cultured from the nih-3t3-matrigel-induced tumors showed a transformed phenotype and lacked contact inhibition .
when cultured in a gel of matrigel , they proliferated and formed branched and invasive colonies .
in contrast , the parental nih-3t3 cells cultured on matrigel remained as cell aggregates and were not invasive .
i.v. injections of the tumor-derived nih-3t3 cells produced many colonies on the surface of the lungs , whereas the parental nih-3t3 cells were not metastatic .
zymographic analysis of the conditioned media obtained from both the tumor-derived and parental nih-3t3 cells demonstrated higher amounts of the 72-kda gelatinase ( type-iv collagenase ) enzyme in the tumor-derived cells .
also , tumor-derived nih-3t3 cells , but not parental nih-3t3 cells , secreted the 92-kda type-iv collagenase .
these studies suggest that the interaction of pre-malignant nih-3t3 cells with extracellular matrix components may contribute to the process of tumor progression .
elevated serum levels of vasoactive intestinal peptide ( vip ) are associated with some cases of neuroblastoma and correlate with a favorable prognosis .
vip has previously been shown in our laboratory to cause the in vitro growth inhibition and morphological differentiation of the human neuroblastoma cell line , la-n-5 .
it is now shown that la-n-5 cells express immunoreactive vip and bear specific vip receptors .
antagonism of endogenous vip , either by competitive inhibition or receptor blockade , increased cell proliferation , suggesting that vip is operative in normal growth regulation .
intracellular and extracellular levels of vip were also shown to increase significantly during the retinoic acid-induced differentiation of these cells .
furthermore , a concomitant marked increase in vip receptor expression was demonstrated with cellular differentiation .
these receptors remain functional as evidenced by a matching increase in the level of detectable camp generated in response to exogenous vip .
it is concluded that vip is a normal autoregulator of neuroblastoma cell growth and differentiation , and that retinoic acid-mediated differentiation may be , in part , due to endogenous vip .
retrovirally induced immunosuppression may elevate the incidence of chemically induced cancers .
a proposed hypothesis to explain this relationship is the increased free radical activity observed during retroviral infection and carcinogen activation .
we previously found that vitamin e retarded growth of esophageal tumors accompanied by reductions of free radical products .
this study investigated the contribution that retroviral immunosuppression has on esophageal cancer induced by the carcinogen n-nitrosomethylbenzylamine ( nmbza ) , and the response that increased levels of dietary vitamin e has on this induced carcinogenesis .
female c57bl/6 mice received nmbza or vehicle ( corn oil ) i.p. weekly for 3 weeks .
then some of the mice were infected with lp-bm5 murine retrovirus and fed diets containing 30 iu vitamin e or 172 iu vitamin e/kg of diet .
as an assessment of free radical activity , exhaled ethane was measured prior to killing the animals at 26 weeks .
esophagi from the various mice groups were assessed for size and frequency of tumors .
livers homogenates were analyzed for vitamins a and e , lipid fluorescence , conjugated dienes and malondialdehyde .
hepatic levels of vitamin a and e were decreased ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) and indices of lipid peroxidation were greater ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) in nmbza-treated mice relative to controls .
lipid peroxidation and serum transaminases ( alt and ast ) were greatest in mice given nmbza and infected with the retroviruses .
incidence of esophageal tumors were also greatest in the nmbza-treated , immunocompromised animals .
mice fed vitamin e-supplemented diets showed increased ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) hepatic concentrations of vitamin e and vitamin a , decreased activities of serum transaminases , decreased indices of lipid peroxidation , and decreased size and frequency of esophageal tumors in both the immunocompromised and non-immunocompromised mice .
these results suggest that vitamin e plays an antioxidant function that retards the incidence of esophageal cancers in immunocompromised and non-immunocompromised animals .
the immune status of spleen and the effect of surgical treatment in advanced gastric cancer ( agc ) patients were evaluated by means of testing nk cell activity , t-lymphocyte subsets and circulating immune complex ( cic ) .
the results showed ( 1 ) the significant impairment of nk cell activity and t-lymphocyte subsets , were decreased in cd3+ , cd4+ cells and increased in cd6+ cells resulting in cd4+/cd8+ cell ratio decrease in peripheral blood lymphocytes ( pbl ) , splenic venous blood lymphocytes ( svl ) and spleen cells ( sc ) of agc , as compared with pbl of normal population ; ( 2 ) nk cell activity or cd4+/cd8+ cell ratio of svl and sc were significantly lower than those of pbl in agc patients , mainly caused by marked decrease of cd4+ cells in sc ; ( 3 ) nk cell activity , cd4+ cells and cd4+/cd8+ cell ratio were significantly elevated in most of agc cases receiving either radical gastrectomy ( r2+ ) or extensive radical gastrectomy ( r3 ) .
a striking declination in cd8+ cells were found only after r3 operation ; ( 4 ) after a short period ( 10-14 days ) or a long period ( 2-4 years ) of radical gastrectomy , nk cell activity and t-lymphocyte subsets showed no significant differences between r2+ and r3 operation .
as a rule , agc would weaken immune function of patients , and along with the development of the tumor , the immunosuppression in the spleen would be generated gradually .
for these reasons , a complete tumor resection would be necessary to improve the immunocompetence , and the combined splenectomy might be advisable if indicated .
background although chemotherapy offers promise of increased survival for children with medulloblastoma and glioblastoma multiforme , drug resistance occurs frequently , resulting in tumor progression and death .
resistance to nitrosoureas and methylating agents , which damage dna , can be mediated by a dna repair protein , o6-alkylguanine-dna alkyltransferase ( agat ) .
depletion of this protein with alkylguanines or methylating agents , however , restores tumor cell sensitivity to the cytotoxicity of chloroethylnitrosoureas ( e.g. , carmustine [ bcnu] ) .
purpose this study was designed to determine whether resistance to the activity of nitrosourea ( the drug bcnu ) in bcnu-resistant human medulloblastoma ( d341 med ) and human glioblastoma multiforme ( d-456 mg ) can be reversed by the methylating agent streptozocin and the o6-substituted guanines o6-methylguanine and o6-benzylguanine .
methods xenografts were grown subcutaneously in athymic balb/c mice .
bcnu was administered as a single intraperitoneal injection at doses of 100 mg/m2 , 75 mg/m2 , or 38 mg/m2--i.e. , 1.0 , 0.75 , or 0.38 , respectively , of the dose lethal to 10% of treated animals ( ld10 ) .
mice were treated intraperitoneally with a single dose of o6-benzylguanine or o6-methylguanine ( 240 mg/m2 ) or with streptozocin ( 600 mg/m2 ) daily for 4 days .
response was assessed by tumor growth delay and tumor regression .
agat activity in the xenografts was measured at 1 and 6 hours after pretreatment , at the time tumors were excised .
results pretreatment with o6-benzylguanine , o6-methylguanine , or streptozocin reduced agat activity to 4% , 25% , and 95% of control values , respectively , in d341 med and 0% , 0% , and 25% of control values , respectively , in d-456 mg 1 hour after injection .
after 6 hours , levels changed to 7% , 61% , and 116% of control values in d341 med and 0% , 79% , and 21% of control values in d-456 mg , respectively .
both d341 med and d-456 mg xenografts were completely resistant to bcnu at its ld10 .
pretreatment with o6-benzylguanine increased bcnu sensitivity in both types of xenograft .
in contrast , treatment with bcnu plus o6-methylguanine or streptozocin did not produce growth delays substantially different from those produced by bcnu alone , reflecting the more efficient depletion of agat by o6-benzylguanine .
following therapy with bcnu plus o6-benzylguanine at 0.38 ld10 , tumor regressions were seen in eight of 10 d341 med and in all 10 d-456 mg xenografts .
conclusion we recommend comprehensive clinical toxicologic evaluation of combination therapy with o6-benzylguanine plus bcnu , which would allow subsequent design of phase i clinical trials .
semi-conservative replication of double-stranded dna in eukaryotic cells is an asymmetric process involving leading and lagging strand synthesis and different dna polymerases .
we report a study to analyze the effect of these asymmetries when the replication machinery encounters alkylation-induced dna adducts .
the model system is an ebv-derived shuttle vector which replicates in synchrony with the host human cells and carries as marker gene the bacterial gpt gene .
a preferential distribution of n-methyl-n-nitrosourea ( mnu)-induced mutations in the non transcribed dna strand of the shuttle vector pf1-ebv was previously reported .
the hypermutated strand was the leading strand .
to test whether the different fidelity of dna polymerases synthesizing the leading and the lagging strands might contribute to mnu-induced mutation distribution the mutagenesis study was repeated on the shuttle vector ptf-ebv which contains the gpt gene in the inverted orientation .
we show that the base substitution error rates on an alkylated substrate are similar for the replication of the leading and lagging strands .
moreover , we present evidence that the fidelity of replication opposite o6-methylguanine adducts of both the leading and lagging strands is not affected by the 3 ' flanking base .
the preferential targeting of mutations after replication of alkylated dna is mainly driven by the base at the 5 ' side of the g residues .
the involvement of signal transduction systems in the initial attachment of two murine b16 melanoma clones of differing metastatic potential to extracellular matrix components was examined to learn more of the early events in cell-matrix interaction .
clones of high and low metastatic capacity attached similarly in the absence of any stimulators , exhibiting a two phase time course of attachment with 100% attachment by 60 min .
a slight difference in attachment characteristics between the clones was seen in response to phorbol ester stimulation , which significantly inhibited attachment of the low metastatic clone but which had no effect on the highly metastatic clone .
total protein kinase c activity and distribution was similar for both clones .
attachment of both clones was severely reduced , however , if intracellular calcium was elevated or intracellular calmodulin inhibited .
this study suggests that signal transduction mechanisms are involved in melanoma cell attachment to matrix proteins and offers an approach to pharmacological manipulation of these cell-matrix interactions which may be relevant to reducing metastatic spread .
normal human lung fibroblast diploid cells , wi-38 , become senescent after a definite number of divisions .
va-13 is a line of immortalized cells established by transformation of wi-38 cells by sv40 virus .
to determine whether sv40 large t ( sv40-t ) antigen is essential for this immortalization of wi-38 cells we introduced an antisense gene for t antigen into va-13 .
two morphologically different types of antisense transformant ( va-as5-8 and va-as37-8 ) were obtained .
in both antisense transformants the expression of t antigen was reduced by more than 70% as compared to that in the parent cells .
the morphology of the antisense transformants indicated a partial conversion to the senescent phenotype of wi-38 .
the relative number of cells in the s phase of the antisense transformants was decreased as compared to that in cultures of va-13 and about 50% of cells were at g1/0 .
the doubling time of the transformants was prolonged to close to the doubling time of wi-38 .
the level of expression of retinoblastoma protein ( prb ) complexed with sv40-t antigen of the antisense transformants was significantly decreased although the level of total prb was much higher than that in va-13 .
the prb was present exclusively in the underphosphorylated form .
thus , the decreased level of formation of the complex between sv40-t and prb or the underphosphorylation of prb may explain the suppression of growth of antisense transformants .
together , these results show that an antisense gene for sv40-t antigen can efficiently block the cell proliferation and the cell immortalization of va-13 cells .
c-myc , c-erbb-2 , and ki-67 expression was examined by immunohistochemistry in 11 normal breast tissues and 42 invasive and 14 noninvasive breast carcinomas .
the c-myc product was detected in all breast carcinoma specimens and in 7 of 11 normal breast tissues .
invasive tumors stained more frequently with the anti-myc monoclonal antibody than did noninvasive tumors , while the level of expression in normal breast tissue was much less than that in breast cancer .
membrane staining of the c-erbb-2 protein was demonstrated in 29% ( 4 of 14 ) of noninvasive ductal carcinomas and in 45% ( 19 of 42 ) of invasive breast carcinomas .
none of the 11 normal breast tissue samples was positive .
the mean value of ki-67-positive cells was 0.91 +/- 0.31% for normal breast tissue , 4.57 +/- 1.36% for noninvasive ductal carcinoma , and 12.76 +/- 2.18% for invasive breast cancer .
in 42 invasive breast carcinomas , the expression of c-myc , c-erbb-2 , and ki-67 proliferation marker were compared with lymph node status , estrogen receptor status , progesterone receptor status , and age of patients at diagnosis. c-erbb-2 overexpression and ki-67 overexpression were identified as the only factors associated with lymph node status .
we concluded that they might be additional prognostic factors for breast carcinoma .
the modifying effects of an immunosuppressive agent , 6-mercaptopurine ( 6-mp ) , on development of focal lesions in liver cirrhosis models induced by carbon tetrachloride ( ccl4 ) or furfural were studied in male f344 rats .
feeding of 6-mp at 50 p.p.m. for 20 weeks to animals with pre-existing liver cirrhosis caused immunosuppression , and significantly enhanced the induction of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase ( ggt)-positive foci and nodules in the ccl4 but not furfural case .
glutathione s-transferase p ( gst-p)-positive preneoplastic lesions were not affected .
moreover , phenobarbital ( pb ) also enhanced the induction of ggt-positive hepatocellular lesions only in the ccl4-induced liver cirrhosis model , no promotion influence being exerted after treatment with the non-carcinogenic furfural .
this study , therefore , suggests that 6-mp can enhance the induction of one type of preneoplastic foci and nodules and that essential differences exist between focal lesions arising in cirrhotic livers caused by ccl4 as opposed to furfural .
amplification of the her-2 ( c-erbb-2 ) gene and overexpression of the p185her-2 gene product is found in approximately one-third of primary human breast and ovarian cancers and is associated with a poor clinical outcome of early relapse and death .
the her-2 gene encodes a cell-surface growth factor receptor with intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity .
wild-type human her-2 has been shown to act as a potent oncogene when over-expressed in mouse fibroblasts .
recent data suggest that the mechanism by which her-2 mediates transformation requires the interaction of the epidermal growth factor ( egf ) receptor .
to test whether overexpression of normal human her-2 can transform cells independently of the egf receptor , we have introduced multiple copies of her-2 into the egf receptor-negative cell line , nr6 , and have performed assays for both transformation and tumorigenicity .
engineered nr6 cells that overexpress the her-2 gene product display a highly transformed and tumorigenic phenotype as compared with control cells .
additionally , a monoclonal antibody to the extracellular domain of the her-2 receptor is able to inhibit the proliferation of the overexpressing cells in vitro as well as tumor growth in vivo .
this study provides clear evidence that her-2-mediated transformation can be achieved independently of the egf receptor .
one of the immunosuppressive effects of both ultraviolet ( uv ) light and chemical carcinogens is to deplete langerhans cells ( lc ) from the epidermis , suggesting that these cells play an important role in inducing immune responses to developing tumors during the early phases of carcinogenesis .
retinoids such as all-trans-retinoic acid ( ra ) are natural or synthetic derivatives of vitamin a ; ra binds to nuclear receptors in the skin , effecting transcription of a wide range of genes .
topical application of ra prevents the tumor promotor 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) from depleting the density of lc in murine epidermis .
in contrast , topical ra did not itself alter the normal lc density .
ra also inhibited the development of tpa-induced immunosuppression to a locally applied contact sensitizer .
topical ra also prevented uv light from reducing the density of both lc and thy-1+ dendritic epidermal cells ( thy-1+ dec ) .
however , the ra treatment did not prevent local immunosuppression to the contact sensitizer from developing in response to uv irradiation .
the reasons for this are unclear , however , it is possible that ra does not inhibit some other immunosuppressive effect of uv light .
temarotene , a recently developed synthetic retinoid also inhibited uv light from reducing the lc and thy-1+ dec density from murine epidermis .
thus part of the anti-carcinogenic activity of retinoids may be due to their ability to protect lc during the early stages of carcinogenesis .
results generated by the immunohistochemical staining with pc10 , a new monoclonal antibody recognizing pcna ( a nuclear protein associated with cell proliferation ) in formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue were compared with those of ki-67 labeling and dna flow cytometry in 47 consecutive non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) .
pcna reactivity was observed in all samples and confined to the nuclei of cancer cells .
its frequency ranged from 0 to 80% ( 37.7 +/- 23.6 ) and larger sized , early-staged and dna aneuploid tumors expressed a significant higher number of pcna-reactive cells .
the pcna and ki-67 labeling rates were closely correlated ( r = 0.383 , p = 0.009 ) .
by flow cytometry , we observed a good correlation among pcna labeling and s-phase fraction ( r = 0.422 , p = .0093 ) and g1 phase ( r = 0.303 , p = .051 ) of the cell cycle .
results indicate that pcna labeling with pc10 is a simple method for assessing the proliferative activity in formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tissue of nsclc and correlates well with ki-67 labeling and s-phase fraction of the cell cycle .
her-2/neu gene expression , dna ploidy and proliferation index were studied in 250 cases of breast cancer .
expression of her-2/neu was determined by using an antibody to the her-2/neu receptor .
ki-67 antibody was used to determine the proliferation index of the breast cancers , and the feulgen method was used to assess dna amounts in the tumor cells .
histochemical staining was quantitated by image analysis .
of the cancers studied , 72 were positive for overexpression of her-2/neu protein ; of these , 62 ( 86% ) possessed near-tetraploid dna content , and 47 ( 65% ) had more than one g0g1 stem line ( polyploid ) of dna distribution .
cells from the cases negative for her/2-neu overexpression contained dna amounts that ranged from diploid to varying degrees of aneuploid .
a significant difference in the amounts of cellular proliferation in her-2/neu overexpressing cancers was found between those that expressed the her-2/neu receptor on their membranes and those that exhibited mainly cytoplasmic receptors .
reactive oxygen species ( ros ) produced by phagocytic cells induce oxidative stress during chronic inflammation .
ros play a role in the pathogenesis of a broad range of diseases including autoimmune , cardiac and neoplastic abnormalities .
we found that sera of patients with a variety of inflammatory dermatoses contain elevated levels of antibodies ( ab ) binding to an oxidized dna base derivative , 5-hydroxymethyl-2'deoxyuridine ( hmdu ) coupled to bovine serum albumin , as determined by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay .
patients with immune complex diseases and a history of neoplasm elaborated the highest titers of anti-hmdu ab .
titers from sera of psoriatic subjects were lower than from the aforementioned groups but were still significantly elevated ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) above those of healthy controls .
treatment of inflammatory dermatoses with systemic antiinflammatory and cytotoxic drugs significantly lowered the titers [ p &lt ; 0.005 ( immune complex ) or p &lt ; 0.001 ( psoriasis and neoplastic ) diseases ] , suggesting that this assay may be of value in monitoring the response to therapy in these diseases .
a panel of primary human cells and virus-transformed derivatives were tested for events that coincide with immortalization .
in all primary and precrisis cells , two proteins of 92 and 150 kda that shared an epitope with p53 were found ; in most of their immortalized derivatives , however , they were absent .
expression of these proteins may be involved in senescence .
lipoprotein lipase ( lpl ) plays a central role in normal lipid metabolism as the key enzyme involved in the hydrolysis of triglycerides present in chylomicrons and very low density lipoproteins .
lpl is a member of a family of hydrolytic enzymes that include hepatic lipase and pancreatic lipase .
based on primary sequence homology of lpl to pancreatic lipase , ser-132 , asp-156 , and his-241 have been proposed to be part of a domain required for normal enzymic activity .
we have analyzed the role of these potential catalytic residues by site-directed mutagenesis and expression of the mutant lpl in human embryonic kidney-293 cells .
substitution of ser-132 , asp-156 , and his-241 by several different residues resulted in the expression of an enzyme that lacked both triolein and tributyrin esterase activities .
mutation of other conserved residues , including ser-97 , ser-307 , asp-78 , asp-371 , asp-440 , his-93 , and his-439 resulted in the expression of active enzymes .
despite their effect on lpl activity , substitutions of ser-132 , asp-156 , and his-241 did not change either the heparin affinity or lipid binding properties of the mutant lpl .
in summary , mutation of ser-132 , asp-156 , and his-241 specifically abolishes total hydrolytic activity without disrupting other important functional domains of lpl .
these combined results strongly support the conclusion that ser-132 , asp-156 , and his-241 form the catalytic triad of lpl and are essential for lpl hydrolytic activity .
human diploid fibroblasts have a limited life span in vitro , and spontaneous immortalization is an extremely rare event .
we have used transformation of human diploid fibroblasts by an origin-defective simian virus 40 genome to develop series of genetically matched immortal cell lines to analyze immortalization .
comparison of a preimmortal transformant ( svtsa/hf-a ) with its uncloned and cloned immortalized derivatives ( ar5 and hal ) has failed to reveal any major alteration involving the simian virus 40 genome .
karyotypic analysis , however , demonstrated that all of the immortal cell lines in this series have alterations of chromosome 6 involving loss of the portion distal to 6q21 .
the karyotypic analysis was corroborated by dna analyses .
southern analysis demonstrated that only one copy of three proto-oncogene loci ( ros1 , c-myb , and mas1 ) on 6q was retained in immortal cells .
polymerase chain reaction analysis of the microsatellite polymorphism at 6q22 ( d6s87 ) showed loss of heterozygosity .
in addition , elevated expression of c-myb ( 6q22-23 ) was observed .
we hypothesize that the region at and/or distal to 6q21 plays a role in immortalization , consistent with the presence of a growth suppressor gene .
a new cell line , cb109 , has been established from a human glioblastoma multiforme .
the cytoskeleton was positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein , vimentin and fibronectin .
hyaluronan ( ha ) and the ha-binding protein hyaluronectin ( hn ) were expressed in the cell cytoplasm and in the extracellular matrix of spheroids and plated cells .
hyaluronidase did not prevent spheroid formation suggesting that ha was not involved in the cell-cell adhesion .
ha precoating prevented cell adherence to the plates and favoured spheroid formation .
ha was secreted in relatively large amounts into the culture medium .
high performance liquid chromatography demonstrated that ha was in the high molecular weight form .
the rate of hn secretion by cells was very low .
basic fibroblast growth factor significantly increased the proliferation in vitro and tumour growth after grafting into nude mice .
the epidermal growth factor receptor was not expressed on cultivated cb109 cells .
cytogenetic analysis showed polysomy 7 , structural rearrangement of chromosome 10 short arm and a translocation 13q13-q14 without detectable alteration of the rb gene .
among salivary gland neoplasms are a group of rare tumors that are histologically identical to benign mixed tumors that inexplicably metastasize ; they have been called metastasizing mixed tumor ( mzmt ) of salivary glands .
we report the clinicopathologic features and flow cytometric findings for 11 cases of mzmt .
at the time of discovery of metastatic disease , the patients , six women and five men , ranged in age from 20 to 83 years .
primary sites of involvement included the parotid gland ( eight cases ) , submandibular gland ( two cases ) , and the nasal septum ( one case ) .
with one exception , all the patients had at least a single recurrences of their primary mixed tumor , but two or more recurrences were the norm before development of metastatic foci .
the metastases were discovered from six to 52 years following the occurrence of the primary tumor .
metastatic deposits were identified in bone , lung , regional lymph nodes , skin , kidney , retroperitoneum , oral cavity , pharynx , calvarium , and central nervous system .
the metastases either occurred simultaneously with an episode of recurrent mixed tumor ( n = 5 ) or from 5 to 29 years after a recurrence ( n = 6 ) .
the treatment of the primary , recurrent , and metastatic neoplasms was surgical excision .
follow-up , ranging from 8 months to 16 years following the diagnosis of mzmt , revealed seven patients to be alive without disease ( 64% ) and two dead of causes unrelated to metastatic disease ( 18% ) .
two patients ( 18% ) died as a direct result of metastatic tumor at 3 and 2 years after metastasis of their mixed tumors .
flow cytometric analysis revealed a diploid dna cell population in the primary and/or metastatic tumors in nine cases .
aneuploid dna cell content was identified in two of the cases .
dna ploidy levels and cell proliferation rates were compared with those of conventional benign mixed tumors and also with malignant mixed tumors .
retrospective analysis of histologic parameters ( mitotic rate , cellular pleomorphism , infiltrative growth , vascular or lymphatic invasion ) and flow cytometric analysis failed to identify criteria to predict the development of metastasis in these neoplasms .
despite an increasing incidence of human breast cancer , its etiology remains unknown .
since some environmental chemicals are stored in human breast fat and are rodent mammary carcinogens , determining the genotoxic potential of environmental agents in this key target tissue is important .
an assay was developed for detecting genotoxic activity , as unscheduled dna synthesis ( uds ) , induced by chemicals and uv radiation in early passage cultures of normal human mammary epithelial cells ( hmec ) derived from 5 different women .
in order to measure uds in culture , reduction in the percentage of cells in s-phase was accomplished either by depriving the cells of epidermal growth factor and bovine pituitary extract or by contact inhibition of growth .
cultures were incubated with test chemicals for 24 h in the presence of [ 3h]-thymidine .
uds was quantitated autoradiographically as net grains per nucleus ( nuclear grains minus cytoplasmic background , population average ) with &gt ; or = 6 net nuclear grains considered in repair for any individual cell .
a positive response was observed with uv radiation , benzo(a)-pyrene , aflatoxin b1 , ethylmethanesulfonate , 1,6-dinitropyrene , 2-acetylaminofluorene , and tobacco smoke condensate but not 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene or 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin .
these results demonstrate that hmec from all 5 women examined have the ability to metabolize a variety of environmental chemicals to dna-reactive forms .
furthermore , some chemicals known either to cause mammary cancer in rodents or to be contaminants in human breast tissue are genotoxic in hmec .
a positive response in passage 9 cultures was observed only with direct acting agents , suggesting that hmec may lose their metabolic capabilities in longer-term cultures .
the hmec uds assay may be used to address the role of environmental agents in human breast cancer by determining whether chemicals are dna reactive or metabolized to dna reactive species in this critical target tissue .
dna single-strand breaks and associated growth inhibition induced by the thymidylate synthase inhibitor n-(5-[n-(3,4-dihydro-2-methyl-4-oxoquinazoline-6-ylmethyl)-n -methylamino]-2 - thenoyl)-l-glutamic acid ( ici d1694 ) were quantitated using the human ileocecal adenocarcinoma cell line , hct-8 .
the effects of different concentrations and schedules of [ 6r,s]-5-formyltetrahydrofolate ( [ 6rs]lv ) and 2'-deoxy-thymidine ( dthd ) on drug growth inhibition and dna damage were also evaluated .
the drug concentrations for 50% inhibition of cell growth in culture following 2-h and 72-h exposures were 0.073 and 0.003 microm , respectively .
after a 2-h drug exposure , the occurrence of dna single-strand breaks ( ssbs ) was time dependent .
it was detectable at 8 h and reached a maximum at about 24 h , 34 +/- 3 ( sd ) and 305 +/- 34 rad equivalents with 0.1 microm ( 50% inhibition concentration ) and 1.0 microm ( 90% inhibition concentration ) ici d1694 , respectively .
a significant level of dna ssbs ( 101 +/- 13 rad equivalents ) was still detectable at 72 h after the 2-h treatment with 1 microm ici d1694 .
no significant level of dna ssbs was detected when cells were exposed simultaneously to ici d1694 and 20 microm [ 6rs]lv .
complete rescue of drug-induced dna ssbs could be achieved when cells were exposed to 10 microm dthd starting no later than 4 h after drug treatment .
the growth inhibition of ici d1694 was abrogated by [ 6rs]lv in a concentration-dependent manner .
complete protection was achieved when cells were exposed simultaneously to 1 microm ici d1694 and 5 microms [ 6rs]lv or to 3 microms dthd immediately after drug treatment .
the results demonstrate that : ( a ) the growth inhibition of ici d1694 is a function of time and schedule ; ( b ) the growth inhibition is accompanied by extensive dna single-strand breaks and slow repair ; ( c ) at 1 microm ici d1694 , 3 microms dthd and 5 microms [ 6rs]lv can completely rescue cells from drug effects when dthd is added up to 4 h following drug treatment or when [ 6rs]lv is given in combination with the drug ; ( d ) interference of [ 6rs]lv with ici d1694 action may be occurring at the level of drug uptake and at intracellular targets , while dthd interferes with the drug action at intracellular targets .
numerous studies have reported a correlation between production of 72-kda ( mmp-2 ) and 92-kda ( mmp-9 ) type-iv collagenases/gelatinases and the metastatic potential of cancer cells .
an abrogating effect of tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases ( timp-1 and timp-2 ) on metastases has also been noted .
in this report we have used sensitive enzyme-linked immunoassays to measure mmp-2 , mmp-9 , timp-1 and timp-2 levels in eight human lung-cancer cell lines which were characterized for biological behavior in nude mice .
we demonstrated that the calu-6 and a549 cell lines with the highest metastatic , invasive and tumorigenic potential secreted the highest levels of mmp-2 .
mmp-9 and timp-1 secretions were comparatively low in all cell lines .
timp-2 secretion , which exceeded mmp-2 secretion for all cell lines , did not correlate with metastatic potential .
to further explore these correlations , the metastatic calu-6 cell line was transfected with a k-rev-1 cdna expression construct .
the k-rev revertant cell lines demonstrated a more differentiated phenotype and were less tumorigenic , invasive and metastatic in nude mice .
nonetheless , the calu-6 revertant cell lines secreted higher levels of mmp-2 than the parent cell line .
in conclusion , invasion and metastasis by lung-cancer cells requires not only enhanced mmp production , but also other less well-understood tumorigenic characteristics .
the multiplicity of factors required by cancer cells for dissemination helps to explain the minute fraction of cancer cells from a primary tumor that ever develop into a metastasis .
a number of growth factors have been implicated in the control of the proliferation of breast cancer cells and some have been reported to mediate the proliferative effects of oestradiol .
mcf-7 cells were treated with growth factors in the presence and absence of oestradiol .
oestradiol increased the response of cells to the proliferative effects of epidermal growth factor ( egf ) , transforming growth factor alpha ( tgf-alpha ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) .
platelet derived growth factor ( pdgf ) and cathepsin d had no effect in the presence or absence of oestradiol while tgf-beta slightly reduced the stimulation by oestradiol .
in the absence of oestradiol , there was little effect of combinations of growth factors although the effects of bfgf and igf-i were additive .
in the presence of oestradiol , the effects of bfgf and tgf-alpha were additive whereas bfgf acted as an igf-i antagonist .
overall , bfgf had the greatest effect on cell proliferation although this was less marked than the previously described effect of the igfs and insulin .
the effects of oestradiol on the sensitivity of cells to the proliferative effects of bfgf did not appear to result from regulation of bfgf receptor expression .
previous reports showed that treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents ( nsaia ) can alter the growth profile of a variety of tumours .
in this study , the effect of nsaia treatment on the growth of the primary tumour and the appearance of spontaneous pulmonary metastases , was investigated .
a mammary adenocarcinoma of non-detected immunogenicity , c7hi , was grafted subcutaneously in the lateral flank of balb/c mice .
oral treatment with approximately 1 mg kg-1 day-1 piroxicam delayed both tumour growth and the growth of pulmonary metastases .
survival of mice bearing the primary tumour was significantly lengthened by anti-inflammatory treatment .
similarly , in separate experiments , after surgical removal of the primary tumour by day 34 after grafting , the group of mice treated orally with piroxicam also exhibited a higher survival rate than the control group .
upon surgical removal of the primary tumour 34 days after grafting , piroxicam treatment significantly decreased both the number and size of pulmonary metastases .
the results of this study lends support to the hypothesis that inhibition or modulation of inflammation may delay tumour organisation and growth .
it is suggested that piroxicam treatment may be an appropriate adjunct therapy to delay the appearance of pulmonary metastases and to increase life-expectancy in a host whose primary tumour has to be surgically removed .
the effect of quercetin , a flavonoid found in many plants , on the proliferation of human leukemic t-cells was analyzed .
quercetin reversibly blocked the cell cycle at a point 3-6 h before the start of dna synthesis .
expression of the growth-related genes histone h4 , cyclin a and b , and p34cdc2 was suppressed in cells blocked with quercetin .
comparison of the quercetin arrest points with those of the cell cycle inhibitors aphidicolin and mimosine revealed a temporal order of arrest points in g1 of quercetin , mimosine , and aphidicolin .
mimosine and aphidicolin did not inhibit the expression of cyclin a or p34cdc2 , whereas all three reagents inhibited expression of cyclin b. low concentrations of the protein inhibitor cycloheximide inhibited release of the quercetin but not the mimosine or aphidicolin block .
a [ 35s]methionine-labeled m(r) 60,000 protein disappeared in quercetin-treated cells and was rapidly synthesized after removal of quercetin , suggesting the possibility that the m(r) 60,000 protein induces dna synthesis after the cell is released from a quercetin block .
these results suggest the usefulness of quercetin in studies of the regulation of late g1 phase .
previous studies have demonstrated that the tobacco-specific nitrosamine 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone ( nnk ) induced liver tumors in f344 rats but not in syrian golden hamsters .
the aim of this study was to determine whether there was a correlation between the persistence of o6-methylguanine ( o6-mgua ) adducts and the rate of recovery of o6-methylguanine-dna methyltransferase ( o6-mguat ) after depletion in the liver and susceptibility to nnk in f344 rat and syrian golden hamster injected s.c. with nnk ( 80 mg/kg ) .
the levels of both 7-methylguanine and o6-mgua reached a maximum 24 h after nnk treatment .
o6-mgua in nnk-treated rat liver was undetectable after 48 h .
in the rat , the depletion of o6-mguat activity occurred within 4 h following nnk treatment .
a subsequent rapid recovery of enzyme activity was observed 36 h after nnk exposure .
in contrast , high levels of o6-mgua persisted in hamster liver dna and no o6-mguat activity was detected up to 336 h after nnk injection .
thus , the persistence of o6-mgua in hamster liver is most likely related to a lack of recovery of the o6-mguat .
these results suggested that factors other than o6-mgua may be determining nnk-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rats .
an aldehyde generated by alpha-hydroxylation of nnk , 4-oxo-4-(3-pyridyl)butanal , inhibited o6-mguat activity in rat hepatocytes , suggesting that this aldehyde contributes to the carcinogenicity of nnk by inhibiting this repair enzyme .
the aim of this study was to address whether there is a fundamental difference in regulation of histone gene expression in cells that have become quiescent but retain the ability to proliferate , compared with those cells that have differentiated .
we compared multiple levels of regulation of histone gene expression during 3t3-l1 pre-adipocyte differentiation .
confluent cells induced to differentiate by treatment with insulin , dexamethasone , and isobutylmethylxanthine initially exhibited an increased proliferative response compared with cells given serum alone .
this initial differentiation response was associated with a twofold increase in both histone gene transcription and cellular histone mrna levels , as well as with enhanced sequence-specific binding of nuclear factors to the proximal cell-cycle-regulatory element of the h4 histone promoter .
transforming growth factor beta 1 , an inhibitor of 3t3-l1 differentiation , increased both the percentage of proliferating cells and the cellular levels of histone mrna when given in addition to serum stimulation , but no enhancement of these parameters was observed upon addition of tgf beta 1 to the differentiation treatment .
interestingly , although tgf beta 1 enhanced binding of nuclear factors to the proximal cell cycle regulatory element of the histone promoter , these protein/dna interactions were not associated with an increase in histone transcription .
our results are consistent with the down-regulation of histone gene expression at confluency being controlled primarily at the post-transcriptional level , in contrast to an increased involvement of transcriptional down-regulation at the onset of differentiation .
apoptosis , programmed cell death , was previously shown to be induced by the mab anti-apo-1 ( igg3 , kappa ) by binding to the apo-1 cell surface ag , a new member of the nerve growth factor/tnf receptor superfamily .
to investigate the role of the ig h chain fc regions we compared induction of apoptosis by the original mab igg3 anti-apo-1 with anti-apo-1 f(ab')2 fragments and different anti-apo-1 isotypes ( igg1 , igg2b , igg2a , and iga ) isolated by sequential sublining .
we found that igg3 was the most active isotype ; igg1 , igg2a , and iga showed intermediate activity , and igg2b and f(ab')2 were inactive .
cytotoxic activity of the inactive or less active antibody preparations was fully reconstituted by protein a , anti-mouse ig , or anti-mouse ig f(ab')2 , respectively .
thus , apo-1-mediated induction of apoptosis was dependent on efficient cross-linking of apo-1 cell surface ag , indirectly augmented by anti-apo-1 fc-fc self-aggregation .
because of their different in vitro activity we selected igg3- , igg2b- , and iga anti-apo-1 to test their antitumor activity against solid human b lymphoblastoid tumors in scid mice .
the isotypes showed a different serum half-life ( igg3 : 9.2-10.4 days , igg2b : 1.9-2.6 days , and iga : 14.1-29.2 h ) and a different initial tumor localization 4 h after i.p. injection ( igg3 around the blood vessels , igg2b homogeneously , and iga heterogeneously distributed in the tumor ) .
all antibody preparations induced tumor regression by induction of apoptosis , even igg2b anti-apo-1 inactive in vitro without cross-linking .
the activity of iga anti-apo-1 , which did not mediate complement-dependent cytotoxicity or antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity indicates that apoptosis may be used as the main if not the only mechanism of induction of tumor regression in vivo .
as with in vitro , igg3 anti-apo-1 was the most effective isotype also in vivo .
this result suggests that cross-linking of apo-1 on the tumor cell surface may also be required for tumor regression by apoptosis in vivo .
taken together , our data show that selective targeting of apoptosis to tumors may be an efficient antitumor mechanism .
at present , isoniazid ( inh ) is being used prophylactically to reduce the side effects of intravesical bcg therapy for superficial bladder cancer , although it is not clear whether or not this reduces the antitumor efficacy of bcg .
in this study the impact of inh treatment on the immune response after repeated intravesical bcg administration was investigated in guinea pigs .
inh was given on the 3 days around each bcg instillation .
we found that the administration of inh severely impaired the immunological effects of bcg .
the induction of mononuclear cell infiltration in the bladder wall was reduced .
enlargement of the regional lymph nodes ( weight and number of cells ) , and increase of mhc class ii expression on the lymph node cells , normally observed after intravesical bcg administration , were inhibited by inh .
systemic immunity , measured by the dth reaction in the skin to ppd , was also diminished due to the combined treatment of bcg with inh .
when inh was administered during the last 4 of 6 bcg instillations , the immune response to bcg was still impaired .
a five-fold increase of the dose of bcg did not overcome the effect of inh .
inh probably did not exert a direct suppression of the immune system of the guinea pig as the dncb skin reactivity was not influenced .
although inh concentrations in the urine were high at the onset of the instillation , in vitro experiments indicated that the effect of inh may not be caused by killing of the bcg organisms shortly after application in the bladder .
in conclusion , our data in guinea pigs suggest that the use of inh may impair the immune response to intravesical bcg .
as this response may be important for the antitumor effect of bcg , urologists should be cautious with the prophylactic use of inh .
the influence on the antitumor efficacy is now investigated in man .
histopathological features of the lymph node involvement were studied in 104 patients with thoracic esophageal cancer who underwent subtotal esophagectomy combined with extended radical lymph adenectomy in cervicothoracoabdominal region .
metastatic involvement was found in a total number of 503 lymph nodes from 73 patients by histologic examination .
the mean of long and short diameter was found to be less than 5mm in 125 ( 24.9% ) of these 503 nodes .
the involved area on the section was less than one third in 149 nodes ( 29.6% ) , and was significantly smaller in mediastinal lymph nodes than those in cervical or abdominal ones .
sixty-seven ( 13.3% ) of 503 nodes were partially invaded by micrometastasis of 1mm or less in diameter .
micrometastasis also more frequently occurred in mediastinal nodes with a statistically significant difference .
extranodal proliferation ( enp ) of cancer cells was found in 106 nodes ( 21.1% ) , and extranodal lymphatic and/or blood vessel invasion ( enly , v ) was also recognized in 60 nodes ( 11.9% ) .
micrometastasis and enp with or without enly , v were found in 24 ( 32.9% ) and 29 ( 39.7% ) of 73 patients with positive lymph node metastasis , respectively .
postoperative survival rate in patients with micrometastasis and/or enp with or without enly , v was inferior to that in patients with neither of them .
the cytotoxic activity of cyclosporin a ( csa ) and the three non-immuno-suppressive csa analogues b3-243 , wo-039 and b3-665 were studied in tumor cell lines representing both classical and atypical forms of multidrug resistance ( mdr ) : t-all gm3639 l100 cells selected for vincristine ( vcr ) resistance and displaying characteristics of classical mdr , including p-glycoprotein ( pgp ) expression and increased drug efflux which can be inhibited by pgp blockers ( e.g. verapamil ) , and u-1285/adr , a small cell lung cancer ( sclc ) cell line selected for doxorubicin resistance which lacks pgp , is insensitive to pgp-blockers and shows cross resistance to cis-platinum .
at 1 micrograms/ml csa was the most active agent in reversing vcr resistance in l100 cells followed by b3-243 and wo-039 , with no effect of b3-665 .
parental lo cells were only marginally sensitized to vcr by these agents .
no reversing effect of any cyclosporin was observed in the u-1285/adr or its parental cell line .
compared to lo cells , l100 cells showed a marked hypersensitivity to csa &gt ; b3-243 &gt ; wo-039 with b3-665 being inactive .
no collateral sensitivity was observed for cyclosporins in u-1285/adr cells .
although of different magnitude , the pattern of cytotoxic activity for the different cyclosporins alone closely parallelled that of l100 cells for u-1285 , u1285/adr and lo cells .
the results indicate that not only the collateral sensitivity in classical mdr but also the cytotoxic actions of cyclosporins per se on tumor cells alone are independent of immunosuppressive activity .
the results also suggest a structure-activity relationship for cyclosporin-induced cytotoxicity similar to , but independent of , mdr reversing activity .
the effect of transforming growth factor-beta 1 ( tgf-beta 1 ) and interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) on ldl receptor in hep g2 cells was investigated .
a greater than two-fold stimulation of the binding and internalisation of [ 125i]-labelled ldl at 37 degrees c was observed after an 18-h incubation of the cells with tgf-beta 1 at 50 ng/ml and il-1 beta at 11,700 units/ml compared with control cells .
scatchard analysis of the binding of [ 125i]-labelled ldl at 4 degrees c after an 18-h incubation of the cells with 1170 units/ml il-1 beta and 5 ng/ml tgf-beta 1 showed that they were both acting primarily by increasing ldl receptor number .
the increase in ldl receptor activity could not be attributed to an increase in cell proliferation as tgf-beta 1 at concentrations from 0.05 ng/ml to 50 ng/ml had no significant effect on either cell number or [ 3h]thymidine incorporation into dna whilst il-1 beta inhibited dna synthesis by more than 80% at a concentration of 11,700 units/ml but had significant effect on cell number .
cholesterol biosynthesis from [ 14c]acetate , in contrast to the stimulation of ldl receptor activity , was inhibited by approximately two-fold by incubation with tgf-beta 1 at 50 ng/ml and il-1 beta at 11,700 units/ml .
using monolayer cultures of clonally isolated c3 and t5 rat prostate cancer cells , we determined that acidic ( afgf ) and basic ( bfgf ) fibroblast growth factors profoundly enhanced t5 cell thymidine incorporation with half-maximum stimulation at 0.53 and 0.35 ng/ml , respectively .
in contrast , afgf or bfgf enhancement of c3 cell thymidine incorporation was about 5% of that of t5 cells , and effects were principally mitogen concentration independent .
saturation analyses and cross-linking studies established that both c3 and t5 cells contained high-affinity fgf receptors of 120 and 145 kilodaltons and that receptor content and kd of c3 and t5 cells were comparable. afgf or bfgf stimulation of t5 cell thymidine incorporation profoundly decreased as cell plating density was reduced from 1.5 x 10(5) to 1.0 x 10(4) cells/well .
the modest response of c3 cells to either afgf or bfgf also decreased as cell plating density was reduced .
because heparin preserves fgf biological activity and enhances bfgf binding to high-affinity fgf receptors , we examined the effect of heparin on fgf stimulation of c3 cell thymidine incorporation .
we found that changes in cell plating density and/or medium heparin concentration had variable , inconsistent effects .
these were c3 cell plating density associated and included inhibition or modest enhancement of fgf effects .
binding analyses established that high-affinity bfgf binding of c3 and t5 cells immediately prior to assessing fgf-stimulated thymidine incorporation was comparable and independent of cell plating density , implying that c3 cell fgf insensitivity was not attributable to differences in c3 and t5 cell fgf receptor content at the time of mitogen stimulation.(abstract truncated at 250 words )
mcf-7 human breast cancer cells propagated in vitro were treated with adenosine derivatives added to the culture medium .
the effects on cell proliferation , glycolysis , and glutaminolysis were investigated .
of all adenosine derivatives tested , amp was the most efficient inhibitor of cell proliferation .
in amp-treated cells , dna synthesis decreased , whereas rna and protein syntheses rose normally with time .
in terms of carbohydrate metabolism , lactate production from glucose was drastically reduced ; therefore , most of lactate produced must have been derived from glutamine .
increases in the enzyme activities involved in glutamate degradation and in the malate-aspartate shuttle were observed .
in contrast , actual glycolytic flux rates declined , whereas key glycolytic enzyme activities increased .
metabolites such as fructose 1,6-bisphosphate and pyruvate accumulated in amp-arrested cells .
based on the lowered nad level in the amp-treated cells , lactate dehydrogenase , but not malate dehydrogenase , was impaired ; thereby the whole of glycolysis was inhibited .
in compensation , glutamine catabolism was increased .
nad concentrations fell drastically because of the known inhibition of p-ribose-pp synthesis through heightened intracellular amp levels .
a hypothetical metabolic scheme to explain these results and to show how extracellular amp may influence carbohydrate metabolism and cell proliferation is presented .
gamma-radiation , tetrandrine , bistratene a , and cisplatin were all found to induce pronounced morphological changes characteristic of apoptosis and extensive dna fragmentation in the human bm13674 cell line 8 h after treatment .
apoptosis induced in bm13674 cells by these diverse agents was markedly inhibited by 1 microm okadaic acid , a tumour promoter that inhibits protein phosphatases 1 and 2a .
this compound also inhibited the appearance of apoptosis in fresh human leukaemia cells that had been exposed to gamma-radiation .
the inhibition of apoptosis was confirmed using fluorescence microscopy and dna gel electrophoresis .
dephosphorylation of a limited number of proteins was shown to be associated with apoptosis and okadaic acid prevented these dephosphorylations .
previous studies on the bm13674 cell line showed that an inhibitor of protein synthesis failed to prevent apoptosis in these cells .
the present data provides further support that posttranslational modification of proteins , in particular , phosphorylation/dephosphorylation status , plays an important role in inhibition/activation of programmed cell death in different human cells after exposure to several cytotoxic agents .
intracellular ph ( phi ) plays a critical role in the entry of cells into the dna-synthesis phase of the cell cycle .
alterations in phi may contribute to abnormal proliferative responses such as those seen in tumorigenic cells .
we observed that alkaline stress leads to genomic transformation of madin-darby canine kidney ( mdck ) cells .
transformed cells ( f cells ) form " foci " in culture , lack contact inhibition , and are able to migrate , typical characteristics of dedifferentiated tumorigenic cells .
f cells exhibit spontaneous biorhythmicity .
rhythmic transmembrane ca2+ flux activates plasma membrane k+ channels and na+/h+ exchange .
this leads to periodic changes of membrane voltage and phi at about one cycle per minute .
we conclude that endogenous oscillatory activity could be a trigger mechanism for dna synthesis , proliferation , and abnormal growth of renal epithelial cells in culture .
urokinase-type plasminogen activator ( u-pa ) plays an important role in tumor growth and metastasis .
the aim of this work was to study the u-pa production , in vitro and in vivo , in a transplantable murine mammary adenocarcinoma ( m3 ) , moderately metastatic to lung , and in a related tumor variant ( mm3 ) , highly metastatic to the same organ , during tumor development .
at different times post-transplantation , tumors were employed to prepare either primary cell cultures or homogenates .
pa activity from conditioned media ( cm ) , cell lysates ( cls ) and tumor homogenates ( ths ) was quantitated by means of a fibrinolytic assay .
immunoneutralization and zymographic assays were performed to identify the pa present in both tumors .
pa activity in cm , cls and ths , that was undetectable at early stages , increased significantly along the growth of m3 adenocarcinoma .
secreted pa activity in mm3 cm was measurable at early stages and consistently increased up to 37 days post-transplantation , but a marked fall of activity was found at 48 days .
pa activity in mm3 ths exhibited the same enhancement and late fall found in vitro .
a positive correlation was observed between tumor size and ths pa values in both tumors .
the pa present in cell cultures and ths was identified as of the u-pa type .
these results support the hypothesis that high u-pa levels are important for tumor invasion and that the stage of tumor development is a critical factor in their pa activity .
photodynamic therapy ( pdt ) of hepatic tumours has been restricted owing to the preferential retention of photosensitizers in liver tissue .
we therefore investigated interstitial tumour illumination as a means of selective pdt .
a piece of colon carcinoma cc531 was implanted in the liver of wag/rij rats .
photofrin was administered ( 5 mg kg-1 i.v. ) 2 days before laser illumination .
tumours with a mean ( +/- s.e. ) diameter of 5.7 +/- 0.1 mm ( n = 106 , 20 days after implantation ) were illuminated with 625 nm light , at 200 mw cm-1 from a 0.5 cm cylindrical diffuser and either 100 , 200 , 400 , 800 or 1600 j cm-1 .
control groups received either laser illumination only , photofrin only or diffuser insertion only .
short-term effects were studied on the second day after illumination by light microscopy and computer-assisted integration of the circumference of damaged areas .
long-term effects were studied on day 36 .
to determine the biochemistry of liver damage and function , serum asat and alat levels were measured on day 1 and 2 , and antipyrine clearance on day 1 .
tumour and surrounding liver necrosis increased with light dose delivered ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
best long-term results were obtained at 800 j cm-1 with complete tumour remission in 4 out of 6 animals .
no deterioration in liver function was found .
the results of this study show the ability of interstitial pdt to cause major destruction of tumour tissue in the liver combined with minimal liver damage .
fifty-six previously untreated stage-i ( according to rai ) chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) patients were examined for their clinical data , immunological characteristics , and hormonal values .
dysfunction of t and b lymphocytes was demonstrated by changed lymphocyte blastogenic response to stimulation with phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) , concanavalin a ( cona ) , pisum sativatum agglutinin ( psa ) , wheat germ agglutinin ( wga ) , recombinant interleukin 2 ( il 2 ) , and dextran sulfate ( dxs ) ; also by decreased immunoglobulin levels ( igg , iga , ige ) and increased beta 2-microglobulin ( beta 2-m ) values .
simultaneously , dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis , immune system integration , imbalance of sex hormones , and changes in thyroid hormones were observed in the same group of patients .
disturbed immunohormonal interactions in early-stage cll may be responsible for the pathogenetic mechanisms in this lymphoproliferative malignancy .
we wanted to investigate the effects of gamma radiation on dna single-strand breaks ( ssb ) and glutathione ( gsh ) levels in mononuclear blood cells ( mnc ) of radiotherapy technicians .
dna ssb in mnc of radiotherapy technicians who use ( 60)co-gamma source in their works were detected by alkaline filter elution and compared to control subjects .
in addition , gsh levels were measured using the enzymatic method in mnc .
blood samples were collected from radiotherapy technicians on monday and friday .
dna ssb levels were found to be significantly higher in smoking controls compared to non-smoking controls .
significant increases of 36% and 49% in dna ssb were detected from monday to friday for non-smoking and smoking radiotherapy technicians , respectively .
gsh levels were found to be decreased significantly from monday to friday .
gamma-radiation resulted in increased dna ssb levels of mnc in radiotherapy technicians throughout the working week and these breaks have been observed to be repaired at the weekend .
smoking habit caused an additional increase in the ssbs observed in radiotherapy technicians .
the growth-inhibitory effects of ketoconazole , an antifungal agent which inhibits arachidonic acid lipoxygenases and cytochrome p-450 enzymes , were tested in human colon and breast cancer cell lines .
in the serum independent ht29-s-b6 colon cell clone , ketoconazole reduced cell proliferation and [ 3h]thymidine incorporation in a dose-dependent fashion , with a 50% inhibitory concentration of approximately 2.5 microm .
flow cytometry showed an accumulation of cells in the g0-g1 phase of the cell cycle and a concomitant decrease of the percentage of cells in s phase .
ketoconazole also inhibited [ 3h]thymidine incorporation in the hormone-independent breast cancer cells mda-mb-231 and evsa-t , with respective 50% inhibitory concentration of approximately 13 and 2 microm .
the mechanism of action of ketoconazole is unknown .
however , another lipoxygenase inhibitor , bw755c , inhibited only weakly [ 3h]-thymidine incorporation and accumulated the cells in s and g2 .
conversely , clotrimazole and skf525a , inhibitors of cytochrome p-450 enzymes , had effects similar to those of ketoconazole on ht29-s-b6 cells whereas metronidazole and secnidazole , other azole derivatives which do not inhibit cytochrome p-450 enzymes , had no effect .
the results suggest that cytochrome p-450 enzyme(s) activity(ies) could be implicated in the antiproliferative effects of ketoconazole .
we found that the human colon cancer cell line sw480 consists of two distinct subpopulations which we have designated e-type ( epithelial ) and r-type ( round ) .
pure cultures of each type were obtained by subcloning , and both have maintained their characteristic phenotypes for at least 1 year ( 40 passages ) .
e-type cells are the major ( &gt ; 98% ) type in the parental sw480 cell line .
they form flat epithelial-like colonies .
in contrast , r-type cells , which constitute a minor fraction ( &lt ; 2% ) of the parental cell line , have a rounded shape and grow in clusters of piled-up cells .
compared to e-type cells or the parental sw480 cells , isolated r-type cells display decreased doubling time , loss of contact inhibition , less adhesiveness to culture plates , higher anchorage-independent growth in soft agar , and a much more aneuploid karyotype .
when injected s.c. into nude mice , r-type cells produce much larger tumors within the same period of time than e-type cells , and the tumors are less differentiated than those produced by the e-type cells .
cell fusion experiments between r-type and e-type cells revealed that the r-type phenotype is dominant , and the results suggest that this is due to one or a few genetic changes .
taken together , these findings suggest that the r-type cells represent a more malignant variant of the e-type cells .
they may be useful , therefore , for studying mechanisms involved in tumor progression .
many reports have emphasized the role of gastrin as a growth factor for normal gastrointestinal mucosa and gastrointestinal cancers .
recent studies have pointed out that this peptide acts also as a growth factor for the pancreatic cancer cell line ar42j .
this effect is mediated by gastrin [ cholecystokinin ( cck)-b ] receptors .
in the present study , we investigated gastrin ( cck-b ) receptor expression in the azaserine-induced rat pancreatic carcinoma dsl-6 , comparing it to normal rat pancreas , and we also characterized cck receptor subtypes in this tumor .
the results showed that there is extensive gastrin binding to the dsl-6 pancreatic carcinoma .
no evidence of specific gastrin binding to normal pancreas was found .
analysis of the ability of gastrin-17-i to inhibit 125i-gastrin-i binding demonstrated that gastrin bound to a single class of receptors with a kd of 0.21 +/- 0.04 nm and a binding capacity of 184 +/- 29 fmol/mg protein. 125i-gastrin-i binding was inhibited by the specific cck-b receptor antagonist l365,260 approximately 40 times more effectively than by the specific cck-a receptor antagonist l364,718 .
analysis of the ability of cholecystokinin octapeptide ( cck-8 ) to inhibit 125i-bolton-hunter-cck-8 binding revealed two cck binding sites , i.e. , a high affinity site and a low affinity site .
the observed binding affinities of cck-8 were then introduced into the computer analysis of the dose-inhibition curve of the ability of gastrin-17-i to inhibit binding of 125i-bolton-hunter-cck-8 , which was significantly better fit by a three-site model than by a two-site model .
the three sites meet the criteria for cck-b , high affinity cck-a , and low affinity cck-a receptors .
the binding capacity of cck-b receptors constitutes 34% of the total high affinity cck binding sites .
this study demonstrated that dsl-6 pancreatic carcinoma expresses three subtypes of cck receptors .
gastrin ( cck-b ) receptors , which were not detected in normal rat pancreas , constitute about one third of the total high affinity cck receptors .
we suggest that novel expression of gastrin ( cck-b ) receptors may be generated by gene mutation or amplification during carcinogenesis and may play an important role in promoting tumor growth .
hepatocyte growth factor ( hgf ) , a mesenchymal-derived factor which regulates growth , motility , and morphogenesis of epithelial and endothelial cells , functions as a hepatotrophic and renotrophic factor for regeneration of the liver and kidney .
we have now obtained evidence that transforming growth factor-beta 1 ( tgf-beta 1 ) and glucocorticoids are negative regulators for hgf gene expression .
when tgf-beta 1 or dexamethasone was added to cultures of mrc-5 human embryonic lung fibroblasts and hl-60 human promyelocytic leukemic cells , the amount of hgf secreted into the culture medium was inhibited to 30-40% of that of control cultures by 10 ng/ml tgf-beta 1 and to 40-50% by 10(-6) m dexamethasone .
the inhibitory effect of tgf-beta 1 and dexamethasone on hgf synthesis in mrc-5 cells was additive , thereby suggesting that tgf-beta 1 and dexamethasone exert effects through distinct mechanisms .
hydrocortisone also inhibited hgf synthesis with the same potency as dexamethasone ; however , testosterone , estriol , and beta-estradiol had no effect .
the rate of hgf synthesis in mrc-5 cells , as measured by pulse labeling with [ 35s]methionine and subsequent immunoprecipitation , was suppressed to 30-40% of the control with 10 ng/ml tgf-beta 1 , and to 30-45% by 10(-6) m dexamethasone .
hgf mrna levels in mrc-5 cells and hl-60 cells were dose-dependently suppressed by tgf-beta 1 and dexamethasone ; 10 ng/ml tgf-beta 1 suppressed hgf mrna levels to 32% and 35% of control culture , respectively , in mrc-5 cells and hl-60 cells , and 10(-6) m dexamethasone suppressed to 43% and 38% , respectively .
thus , tgf-beta 1 and glucocorticoids seem to inhibit hgf synthesis by suppressing the expression of the hgf gene .
we propose that a negative regulation of hgf gene expression by tgf-beta 1 or glucocorticoids may be involved in physiological or pathological processes during tissue regeneration .
peptide 11 , cdpgyigsr-nh2 , is a segment of laminin which blocks tumor cell invasion .
a high affinity laminin receptor in tumor cells is thought to be blocked by the carboxyl-terminal yigsr , and conformational energy calculations suggest that the glycine in yigsr allows an important conformational bend .
we replaced the yigsr glycine residue in peptide 11 with either d-alanine or l-alanine to allow or disfavor the proposed glycine bend .
we found the gly7--&gt;d-ala7 analog to be equal to peptide 11 in inhibiting tumor cell invasion of basement membrane matrix .
the gly7--&gt;l-ala7 analog was much less capable of invasion inhibition .
two-dimensional 1h-1h nmr was used to study the solution conformations of the peptide 11 analogs .
noesy experiments revealed close nh-nh contacts in peptide 11 and the d-ala7 analog , but not in the l-ala7 analog .
molecular dynamics generated low energy structures with excellent noe agreement for peptide 11 and its analogs .
both peptide 11 and the d-ala7 analog , but not the less active l-ala7 analog , were predicted to have similar bends around gly7 or d-ala7 .
these results suggest that a bend in the yigsr region of peptide 11 may be important for the binding of laminin to its metastasis-associated receptor .
many breast cancers are estrogen independent , and even in patients who initially respond to estrogen suppression therapy , the regression is often temporary .
we have recently shown that antagonists of bombesin and gastrin-releasing peptide , including rc-3095 , inhibit the growth of pancreatic , colonic , and prostatic cancers in experimental animals .
this effect was associated with a substantial decrease in epidermal growth factor ( egf ) receptor levels in pancreatic and colon cancers .
objective to study the effects of angiostatin(as) gene mediated by liposome on human pancreatic cancer cell line sw1990 .
methods angiostatin gene was cloned into the eukaryotic expression vector prc/cmv .
the recombinant of prc/cmv-as was introduced into the pancreatic cancer cell line , sw1990 .
the mechanism of anti-tumor was studied and tested .
results the eukaryotic expression vector prc/cmv-as was identified by the restriction digest. prc/cmv-as was stably integrated into the target cells and expressed by western blot and drug-sensitivity tests , and inhibited the vascular endothelial cells proliferation in vitro .
in addition , the effects of the angiostatin vector on reducing the volume of tumors implanted in nude mouse models were also noted .
conclusion this study demonstrated that the recombinant prc/cmv-as mediated by liposome may play a potential role in the treatment of pancreatic cancer in the future .
cytokines are known to play an important role in host defense by regulating the function , growth , and differentiation of the cells of the immune system .
we hypothesize that , in the tumor microenvironment , tumor cells and resident tissue cells ( e.g. , fibroblasts ) also produce cytokines that may regulate the local immune response to tumors .
initially , homogenates of eight head and neck squamous cell carcinomas ( hnscc ) were assayed for the presence of interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) , interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) , interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) , and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) to establish the presence of these cytokines in the tumors in vivo .
we detected il-1 in all tumor homogenates and il-4 , il-6 , and gm-csf in some homogenates .
to assess the ability of hnscc to produce these cytokines , supernatants of short-term primary cultures of hnscc were assayed for the same cytokines .
no il-1 was detected , although baseline levels of il-4 , il-6 , and gm-csf were present .
however , the stimulation of primary tumor cultures with exogenous il-1 induced or significantly enhanced production of il-4 ( p &lt ; 0.01 ) , il-6 ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) , and gm-csf ( p &lt ; 0.02 ) .
these results support our hypothesis that hnscc secrete cytokines that may influence the response of local immune cells .
our data also suggest that il-1 may have a central role in regulating the local immune response through the enhancement or induction of cytokine production by tumor and/or resident tissue cells .
capillary endothelial cells can be induced to form capillary-like structures in vitro by plating on fibronectin-coated dishes ( ingber , d. e. , and folkman , j .
( 1989 ) j. cell biol. 109 , 317-330 ) , thereby mimicking angiogenesis .
to assess the role of glycoproteins bearing asparagine-linked oligosaccharides in this process , we tested the effect of oligosaccharide processing inhibitors on the formation of capillary tubes .
deoxymannojirimycin , a compound that prevents synthesis of hybrid and complex-type oligosaccharides , inhibited the formation of capillary tubes .
in contrast , swainsonine , an inhibitor that blocks synthesis of complex- but not hybrid-type oligosaccharides , did not inhibit tube formation .
lectin affinity chromatography of 2-[3h] mannose-labeled glycopeptides from endothelial cells induced to form tubes did not reveal a striking difference in the spectrum of oligosaccharides compared to uninduced cells .
since endothelial cells formed tubes normally in the presence of swainsonine , we analyzed glycopeptides from swainsonine-treated induced and uninduced cells .
cells induced to form tubes were enriched in monosialylated hybrid-type oligosaccharides sensitive to alpha-fucosidase , beta-galactosidase , and beta-n-acetylhexosaminidase , suggestive of sialyl lewis-x determinants .
we used an enzyme-linked immunoassay to measure sialyl lewis-x epitopes on capillary endothelial cells and found that both induced and uninduced cells expressed sialyl lewis-x epitopes .
deoxymannojirimycin and , to a lesser extent , swainsonine reduced the level of sialyl lewis-x epitopes in cells induced to form capillary tubes , but neither compound affected the level of epitopes in cell monolayers .
we conclude that synthesis of at least hybrid-type oligosaccharides is required for capillary tube formation in vitro and that an increase in monosialylated , fucosylated glycans on asparagine-linked oligosaccharides occurs during this process .
the ut-7 cell line was established from a patient with a megakaryoblastic leukemia ( komatsu et al , cancer res 51 : 341 , 1991 ) .
its proliferation is strictly dependent on the presence of hematopoietic growth factors including erythropoietin ( epo ) , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , and interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) .
we investigated the differentiation capacities of this cell line under the action of several growth factors , using immunomarkers , flow cytometry , and ultrastructural techniques .
in the presence of gm-csf and il-3 , eosinophil and basophil promyelocytes were detected , as well as a few cells with erythroid and megakaryocytic ( mk ) differentiation features .
in contrast , epo induced a marked erythroid differentiation with an increase of glycophorin a expression , accompanied by a few hemoglobinized cells .
differentiation induced by the growth factors took 24 to 48 hours to begin , and increased with cell passages to a plateau at 2 weeks of culture .
however , this was not only due to a cell selection because the differential effects of epo and gm-csf were observed from a single cell clone and the phenotype could be reversed by opposite growth factors , even after a long period of culture .
we subsequently investigated the phenotype of ut-7 in the presence of combinations of epo , il-3 , and gm-csf , and showed that gm-csf and il-3 act predominantly over epo .
this effect was mediated by a rapid downmodulation of epo receptors by gm-csf at messenger rna and binding sites levels , without a change in receptor affinities .
on the other hand , epo had no effect on number and affinity of gm-csf receptors .
this study shows that ut-7 is a growth factor-dependent pluripotent cell line in which commitment may be directed by a hierarchical action of growth factors through an early and rapid transmodulation of growth factor receptors .
chromatographic , peptide mapping and mass spectrometric analysis were used to examine hemoglobin ( hb ) from heavy drinkers and abstainers for alcohol consumption-related modifications .
heavy drinker and abstainer hemoglobin samples contained similar amounts of glycosylated hb and significantly different ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) amounts of " fast " hemoglobin .
the presence of higher amounts of " fast " hb in heavy drinker relative to abstainer samples suggested the presence of alcohol-consumption related modifications .
to further examine hb for modifications , tryptic peptides of the " fast " hemoglobin hba1c were isolated and analyzed by plasma desorption mass spectrometry ( pdms). [ 14c]acetaldehyde ( ach)-hb was synthesized in vivo for use as a standard .
specific peptides were chosen based on co-migration with radiolabeled peptides from a tryptic digest of the [ 14c]acetaldehyde-hb .
the masses obtained by pdms for two heavy drinker peptides were identical to two radiolabeled peptides ; the two pairs of peptides co-migrated on hplc .
a comparison of the observed mass for the peptides with the theoretical masses for acetaldehyde-modified hb peptides suggested that the peptides were ach-modified alpha and beta chain n-termini of hb .
the modified peptides were found in five of six heavy drinker samples .
this is the first description of site-specific ach-hb adducts occurring in vivo .
the routine detection of such adducts has potential for characterizing usual alcohol intake .
a tumor growth-dependent elevation in the hepatic levels of zn and metallothionein ( mt ) , without a change in the level of cu , was found in mice and rats bearing solid tumors in the inguinal region .
the levels of zn and mt thus elevated gave a significant correlation ( r = 0.95 ) between them .
nevertheless , when tumor-bearing mice and rats were fed a zn-deficient diet , the hepatic levels of zn and mt did not increase .
in mice in which inflammation was induced at the same region , on the other hand , hepatic levels of zn and mt increased transiently after the injection of turpentine or carrageenan even when they were fed the zn-deficient diet .
these results suggest that the elevation of mt and zn levels can be a helpful marker for detecting malignancy .
the induction of apoptosis by glucocorticoids in isolated thymocytes has been studied extensively .
however , it is not known whether or not the same changes occur after in vivo glucocorticoid treatment .
in order to investigate this , we have studied the changes occurring in thymocytes isolated from rats , from 2-24 hr after a dose of dexamethasone ( 1 mg/kg ) , which caused 50% thymic atrophy .
thymocytes were separated into four fractions by isopycnic percoll gradients .
a loss of cells occurred within 2-8 hr , primarily in only one of the two major fractions of normal thymocytes .
this loss of normal thymocytes coincided with the appearance of small dense cells with characteristic features of apoptosis including condensed chromatin , increased dna fragmentation , internucleosomal dna cleavage and a " hypodiploid " peak on flow cytometric analysis .
striking differences occurred in the cellular composition of the different percoll fractions with time .
initially ( up to 4 hr ) , the pattern of changes occurring in vivo resembled those found in vitro .
however , at later times , the complex fate of apoptotic cells in vivo , such as phagocytosis , are not observed in the in vitro studies .
cell kinetics and activity of ornithine decarboxylase ( odc ) were studied during the process of 1-hydroxyanthraquinone ( 1-ha)-induced intestinal carcinogenesis in rats .
starting at 6 weeks of age , a total of 37 male aci/n rats were divided into two groups and treated as follows : group i ( 18 rats ) received diet containing 1% 1-ha for 12 months ; group ii ( 19 rats ) was given the basal diet alone .
sub-groups of 5-7 rats were sequentially killed at 4 , 8 and 12 months for evaluation of the length , cell numbers and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine ( brdu ) labeling indices of large bowel crypts together with odc activity .
all kinetic and odc data indicated increased dna synthesis and proliferation at all time points .
morphological observation of the intestines also revealed melanosis , crypt abscesses and erosion , becoming more pronounced with length of exposure to the anthraquinone .
the data thus suggest that cell proliferation in the crypts of the cecum or colon is important for 1-ha-induced intestinal carcinogenesis .
the use of substrates containing well defined adducts at precise sites , is required to perform a careful analysis of the toxic and mutagenic potential of a lesion .
as a first step in this direction the octamer 5'-d(ccggcggt) , containing the sequence of the codons 12 d(ggc) and 13 d(ggt) of the human h-ras gene , was reacted with the antitumoral drug cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(ii) .
the platinated products have been purified by hplc .
a first set of experiments , including enzymatic digestions with nuclease p1 followed by alkaline phosphatase and acid-catalysed hydrolysis , allowed us to determine which bases were engaged in the cis-ddp lesions .
our results indicate that only guanine residues were chelated with cisplatin to yield bifunctional adducts .
furthermore , by performing enzymatic digestions with phosphodiesterases , we have located the adducts with respect to the 5 ' end of the octamer .
among the purified and characterized platinated oligonucleotides , three present a particular interest , since we have shown here that the cis-d(gpg) adduct is precisely situated either at the d(ggc) or at the d(ggt) or at both sites of their sequence .
we have exploited properties of photosensitizers to study an aspect of the packing of chromatin in the cell nucleus .
the fluorescent photosensitizers mesotetra(3-hydroxyphenyl) porphyrin and photofrin ii were both localized in the nuclear membrane and other membrane structures , but could not be found inside the nuclei .
light exposure of cells at 1 degrees c in the presence of the sensitizers induced dna double-strand breaks .
the length distributions of dna fragments were determined by pulsed field gel electrophoresis .
because dna damage is produced mainly via singlet oxygen diffusing less than 0.1 microns from the sensitizer , dna double-strand breaks were supposedly produced within this distance of the nuclear membrane .
consistent with this , with prolonged illumination and with increasing concentrations of sensitizer the distribution of dna fragment lengths reached a plateau level .
in contrast , with the hydrophilic , intranuclear sensitizer meso-tetra(4-sulphonatophenyl)porphyrin , no such plateau level was found .
the plateau distributions of dna fragment lengths of different cell types had the same general shape with average fragment lengths ranging from 174 to 194 kilobasepairs .
particular genes , c-myc , fos and p53 , were found on broad distributions of photocleaved fragment lengths .
the results indicate that on each side of the genes the locus of the chromatin fibre situated close to the nuclear membrane , varied randomly .
to assess the importance of changes in dna methylation in an x-ray-induced cellular transformation process , methylation patterns of five nuclear protooncogenes in fifteen transformant clones were studied and compared to that of the parental non-transformed cell line m5s/1m .
all transformants examined revealed an alteration in dna methylation in some of the genes , although these changes were variable among them .
a comparison of cellular characteristics with corresponding dna methylation changes in different clones suggested that the loss of contact inhibition and the gain of anchorage independency were associated with increases of methylation in many genes , whereas the acquisition of tumorigenicity was often accompanied by a decrease of methylation in the n-myc and c-myc genes .
resultant data indicate that the alteration of dna methylation is closely related to transformation process , yet how this involvement occurs is complex and remains unclear .
we compared gadolinium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid ( gd-dtpa ) enhanced t1-weighted images ( t1-gd ) with the histopathological findings in 13 patients with bone or soft tissue sarcomas .
signal intensity of the viable tumor tissue was increased in t1-gd in 92% of the patients .
the necrotic or cystic areas in the tumor were not enhanced , rendering them distinctly .
the degree of enhancement of the edematous area around the tumor was similar to or more marked than that of the tumor in 54% of the patients .
area showing inflammatory cells infiltration and edematous areas in the tumor tissue were also enhanced .
thus , the effect of preoperative chemotherapy in tumor tissues other than necrotic and cystic areas tended to be underestimated in t1-gd .
its effect should be comprehensively evaluated based on not only t1-gd but also t2-weighted images and findings of other imaging techniques .
we have extended our studies on the relationship between cisplatin/carboplatin-induced dna damage in readily accessible tissue(s) and clinical response to therapy .
such an approach may assist in the study of cancer drug resistance and in establishing parameters for assessing human populations for sensitivity to dna damaging agents in the environment .
platinum-dna adduct levels were measured by atomic absorbance spectrometry .
dna repair capacity was assessed in human t-lymphocytes by the ability to repair cisplatin lesions in cellular dna or in transfected plasmid dna .
in a " blinded " study of 21 patients receiving combination cisplatin/carboplatin drug therapy , there was a direct relationship between dna damage in leukocytes and disease response ( summary two-sided p = 0.00011 ) .
the cohort of patients had 15 different tumor types , suggesting that blood tissue and tumor tissue of an individual may process platinum-dna damage similarly regardless of the tissue of origin of the tumor .
in leukocytes in vivo , persistence and accumulation were prominent features of the cisplatin-dna adduct profile .
functional dna repair capacity has been studied in eight human leukocyte cell lines in vitro ( three , t-cells ; three , b-cells ; one , monocytic ; one , promyelocytic ) , using a host cell reactivation assay with cisplatin-damaged prsvcat .
in the three t cell lines studied , host cell reactivation efficiency was directly related to the cells ' abilities to repair cisplatin-damaged cellular dna ( correlation coefficient = 0.993).(abstract truncated at 250 words )
prl induces quiescent nb2 rat t-lymphoma cells to undergo mitogenesis .
upon prl stimulation , the transcription factor interferon regulatory factor-1 ( irf-1 ) is induced as a novel t-cell activation gene in nb2 cells .
surprisingly , irf-1 is expressed twice during a single prl-induced growth cycle : first during the early g1 phase , in an immediate transient peak from 15 min to 2 h , and second during the g1/s phase transition , in a broader peak beginning at 8 h .
the unusual biphasic expression of irf-1 mrna is accompanied both times by de novo irf-1 protein synthesis .
however , the rate of irf-1 protein turnover appears to be different in g1 and s phases .
irf-1 protein expressed in g1 exhibits a half-life of about 25 min , whereas in the s phase , the half-life is about 60 min .
by washing out prl at various times during g1 , we found a direct correlation among the length of prl exposure , the second peak of irf-1 mrna expression , and dna synthesis .
our data suggest that prl and one putative nuclear mediator , irf-1 , may be important in two distinct phases of the cell cycle : first in cell cycle activation , and then in s phase progression .
psoralen photoreaction with dna produces interstrand crosslinks , which require the activity of excision and recombinational pathways for repair .
yeast replicating plasmids , carrying the his3 , trp1 , and ura3 genes , were photoreacted with psoralen in vitro and transfected into saccharomyces cerevisiae cells .
repair was assayed as the relative transformation efficiency .
a recombination-deficient rad52 strain was the least efficient in the repair of psoralen-damaged plasmids ; excision repair-deficient rad1 and rad3 strains had repair efficiencies intermediate between those of rad52 and rad cells .
the level of repair also depended on the conditions of transformant selection ; repair was more efficient in medium lacking tryptophan than in medium from which either histidine or uracil was omitted .
the plasmid repair differential between these selective media was greatest in rad1 cells , and depended on rad52 .
plasmid-chromosome recombination was stimulated by psoralen damage , and required rad52 function .
chromosome to plasmid gene conversion was seen most frequently at the his3 locus .
in rad and rad3 cells , the majority of the conversions were associated with plasmid integration , while in rad1 cells most were non-crossover events .
plasmid to chromosome gene conversion was observed most frequently at the trp1 locus , and was accompanied by plasmid loss .
objective to investigate a potential mechanism of invasion and metastasis of oral cancers , and the possibility of the adhesion molecules being markers for evaluating the prognosis of oral cancers .
methods randomly selecting achieved paraffin blocks , including 60 cases of squamous cell carcinoma(scc) , 30 cases of verrucous carcinoma(vc) of oral mucosa and 30 cases of basal cell carcinoma ( bcc ) of epidermis .
all cases were followed up .
using immunohistochemistry method ( envision ) to detect the expression of e-cadherin antibody and observe under light microscope .
results the studies demonstrated that 38.2% of scc had recurrence and/or metastases after operation .
however , only 0.0% and 0.04% , in vc and bcc , respectively , had recurrence and/or metastases .
there was significant difference on prognoses between scc and vc or bcc .
the immunostaining showed significant difference of e-cad expression between scc and vc ( p&lt;0.01 ) , scc and bcc ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
the former was weaker than vc and bcc .
however , no difference was showed in e-cad expression between vc and bcc ( p&gt;0.05 ) .
conclusion e-cad plays an important role in maintaining the phenotype of epithelial cell of scc and normal oral mucosa .
the degree of expression of e-cad was correlated with the ability of invasion and/or metastasis of scc , vc and bcc .
it indicates that e-cad may be as a helpful marker to evaluate the prognosis of oral cancers .
in our study we investigated the level of apoptosis in pbmcs and the serological level of sfas ( cd95/apo-1 ) in 22 patients with malignant melanoma ( 12 patients with unique cutaneous primary tumour and 10 patients with unique brain metastasis ) .
the first determination was performed before tumour excision and the second at 6-7 months after excision .
results in patients with primary tumour in the first determination : 6 patients with over normal values in pbmcs apoptosis and 5 patients with increased values of sfas .
in the second determination : apoptosis was increased in 5 patients and sfas level was increased in 4 cases .
in patients with metastases in the first determination apoptosis of pbmc was increased in 7 cases and sfas in 5 cases .
in the second determination apoptosis was increased in 4 cases and sfas was increased in 4 cases .
our results show that half of the investigated patients presented elevated values of pbmcs apoptosis and fas receptor both before and 6-7 months after tumour excision .
apoptosis values for pbmcs and sfas values were with 1/4 higher than normals .
there was no difference in clinical evolution of the patients with normal or increased values for studied parameters .
clinical evolution was performed for 1 year .
the presence of increased values for pbmcs and sfas after tumour excision , primary or metastasis is surprising and hard to explain .
it is possible that tumoral evolution induces a disregulation at pbmcs level or other cells level that persists unexpectedly , after tumour excision or apoptotic processes , in a certain level to be independent and anterior to tumour development .
contrary to the paradigm that cancer incidence increases indefinitely with age , significant data now suggest cancer incidence may markedly reduce beyond age 80 years for humans and beyond 800 days for mice , and is not inevitable .
we show that increasing cellular senescence with age is a possible cause of this reduction , since senescent cells are removed from the pool of cells that retain proliferative ability necessary for cancer .
we further show that animal interventions appearing to alter senescence , p53 mutation and melatonin dosing , support the prediction that increasing senescence rate reduces cancer while reducing lifespan , and vice versa .
studies of environmental agents associated with increased cancer might be re-examined to find if there is an association with longevity increases , which may markedly alter our view of such agents .
we also show that if an agent functions by slowing both senescence and carcinogenesis , longevity is increased while reducing cancer .
dietary restriction is the only known intervention that accomplishes this , but there may be others .
epidermal growth factor ( egf ) receptor is inversely related to expression of estrogen receptor ( er ) and progesterone receptor in primary breast tumors and is a negative predictor for response to endocrine therapy .
to investigate a possible causal role of egf receptor expression in breast cancer progression to hormone independence , we have created an experimental cell system .
epidermal growth factor receptor complementary dna was introduced in estrogen-dependent zr-75-1 breast cancer cells , and the resulting zr/herc cells exhibited a mitogenic response to epidermal growth factor , thus bypassing estrogen dependence .
this egf-induced proliferation could not be inhibited by antiestrogens .
in addition , we noted changes in cell morphology and keratin expression of egf-stimulated zr/herc cells , suggestive of an altered differentiation state .
furthermore , intolerance of functional er and egf receptor signal transduction pathways in zr/herc cells was observed during simultaneous activation , which possibly explains the inverse relationship of er and egf receptor expression in primary tumors .
in contrast to the parental cells , zr/herc cells rapidly progressed to a stable er-negative phenotype when cultured in the presence of the antiestrogen hydroxy-tamoxifen .
these results suggest a possible role for egf receptor in progression of breast cancer to hormone independence .
in mice fed a diet supplemented with red clover isoflavones the prostatic epithelium displays a significant increase in the production of estrogen receptor beta and the adhesion protein e-cadherin but a decrease in transforming growth factor beta1 .
these proteins are estrogenically-induced markers of proliferation , maintenance of histological architecture , preservation of cell phenotype and reduction of the potential for neoplastic and metastatic transformation .
this study suggests that red clover isoflavones represent a non-toxic dietary treatment for prostatic hyperplasia and a reduction in the potential for neoplastic transformation .
limited options for the treatment of prostate cancer have spurred the search for new therapies .
one innovative approach is the use of targeted alpha therapy ( tat ) to inhibit cancer growth , using an alpha particle emitting radioisotope such as ( 213)bi .
because of its short range and high linear energy transfer ( let ) , alpha-particles may be particularly effective in the treatment of cancer , especially in inhibiting the development of metastatic tumors from micro-metastases .
prostate-specific membrane antigen ( psma ) is expressed in prostate cancer cells and the neovasculature of a wide variety of malignant neoplasms including lung , colon , breast and others , but not in normal vascular endothelium .
the expression is further increased in higher-grade cancers , metastatic disease and hormone-refractory prostate cancer ( pca ) .
j591 is one of several monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) to the extracellular domain of psma .
chelation of j591 mab with ( 213)bi forms the alpha-radioimmunoconjugate ( aic ) .
the objective of this preclinical study was to design an injectable aic to treat human prostate tumors growing subcutaneously in mice .
the anti-proliferative effects of aic against prostate cancer were tested in vitro using the mts assay and in vivo with the nude mice model .
apoptosis was documented using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase [ tdt]-mediated deoxyuridinetriphosphate [ dutp ] nick end-labeling ( tunel ) assay , while proliferative index was assessed using the ki-67 marker .
we show that a very high density of psma is expressed in an androgen-dependent human pca cell line ( lncap-ln3 ) and in tumor xenografts from nude mice .
we also demonstrate that the aic extensively inhibits the growth of ln3 cells in vitro in a concentration-dependent fashion , causing the cells to undergo apoptosis .
our in vivo studies showed that a local aic injection of 50 microci at 2 days post-cell inoculation gave complete inhibition of tumor growth , whereas results for a non-specific aic were similar to those for untreated mice .
further , after 1 and 3 weeks post-tumor appearance , a single ( 100 microci/100 microl ) intra-lesional injection of aic can inhibit the growth of ln3 tumor xenografts ( volume&lt;100 mm(3) ) in nude mice .
tumors treated with aic decreased in volume from a mean 46+/-14 mm(3) in the first week or 71+/-15 mm(3) in the third week to non-palpable , while in control mice treated with a non-specific aic using the same dose , tumor volume increased from 42 to 590 mm(3) .
there were no observed side effects of the treatment .
because of its in vitro cytotoxicity and these anti-proliferative properties in vivo , the ( 213)bi-j591 conjugate has considerable potential as a new therapeutic agent for the treatment of prostate cancer .
although it has been demonstrated that discrete origins of dna replication exist in eukaryotic cellular chromosomes , the detailed organization of a eukaryotic cellular origin remains to be determined .
linker substitution mutations were constructed across the entire saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosomal origin , ars1 .
functional studies of these mutants revealed one essential element ( a ) , which includes a match to the ars consensus sequence , and three additional elements ( b1 , b2 , and b3 ) , which collectively are also essential for origin function .
these four elements arranged exactly as in ars1 , but surrounded by completely unrelated sequence , functioned as an efficient origin .
element b3 is the binding site for the transcription factor-origin binding protein abf1 .
other transcription factor binding sites substitute for the b3 element and a trans-acting transcriptional activation domain is required .
the multipartite nature of a chromosomal replication origin and the role of transcriptional activators in its function present a striking similarity to the organization of eukaryotic promoters .
glutathione s-transferase ( gst ) class mu activity was determined in 145 unrelated hospital patients in berlin by measuring their conjugation activity towards the specific substrate trans-stilbene oxide ( tso ) with two substrate concentrations ( 50 and 250 microm ) in homogenates prepared from lymphocytes .
eighty individuals ( 55.2% ) had an activity lower than 10 pmol/min/10(6) lymphocytes and were classified as gst class mu deficient .
in 142 of 145 cases , phenotype was confirmed by the results of a genotyping procedure using the polymerase chain reaction technique .
two fragments of 273 and about 650 bp including one and two introns , respectively , could always be amplified from genomic dna in individuals with high gst class mu activity and could not be amplified in persons with impaired glutathione-tso conjugation activity .
this indicates that persons with low activity carry a large deletion mutation within the gst class mu gene .
the enzymatically determined antimode between low and high activity determined as 10 pmol/min/1 million lymphocytes in the assay with 50 microm tso could be clearly confirmed by genotyping .
background ovarian surface epithelial cells undergo several rounds of division to repair the wound created by follicular rupture at the time of ovulation .
this cyclical requirement for cell division , when not interrupted by the long anovulatory rest periods that occur during pregnancy and lactation , may contribute to the development of ovarian cancer .
purpose and methods to test this hypothesis , we isolated rat ovarian surface epithelial cells from 10 adult female fisher rats , initiated two mixed-population and seven clonal cell lines , and repeatedly subcultured these cells in vitro for more than 20 passages .
we then tested them for the acquisition of the following four features associated with transformation : 1 ) the loss of contact inhibition , 2 ) the capacity for substrate-independent growth , 3 ) the ability to form tumors when injected subcutaneously and/or intraperitoneally into athymic mice , and 4 ) cytogenetic abnormalities .
results loss of contact inhibition was observed in all nine late-passage cell lines .
six of the nine late-passage , but none of the early-passage , cell lines tested exhibited a capacity for substrate-independent growth that was augmented in a dose-dependent manner by epidermal growth factor .
two late-passage cell lines ( clone 2 and mixed-population 2 ) generated tumors in athymic balb/c mice within 3 weeks following subcutaneous injection of 5 x 10(6) cells , whereas similar numbers of early-passage cells from the same cell lines failed to generate palpable tumors .
late-passage clone 7 cells were tumorigenic when 5 x 10(7) cells were injected intraperitoneally .
two of the cell lines analyzed exhibited alterations involving losses of part or all of one member of the chromosome 5 pair .
clone 2 possessed an interstitial deletion , del(5)(q21.3q24) , consistent with the loss of an uncloned putative tumor suppressor gene at 5q22q23 previously reported to reside near the loci for the interferon alpha , interferon beta , and c-jun genes .
early-passage clone 7 cells exhibited chromosome 5 monosomy , while late-passage cells contained one normal chromosome 5 and a derivative ( 5q12q ) .
southern analysis of the three cell lines revealed no consistent loss of loci for the interferon and c-jun genes , although early-passage clone 7 cells had one half the gene copy number for the interferon beta and c-jun genes and both early- and late-passage clone 7 cells lacked dna sequences hybridizing with the probe for interferon alpha .
conclusion this pattern of passage-dependent spontaneous transformation of rat ovarian surface epithelial cells in vitro supports the hypothesis that repetitious ovulation contributes to the etiology of human ovarian cancer .
the hypothesis that rodent cells can be immortalized by the direct induction of a single mutation-like event was tested by initiating cultures of benzo(a)pyrene treated syrian hamster embryo cells with low inocula and expanding these few cells maximally until senescence prevented further culturing or immortalization took place .
according to the mutation hypothesis immortalization is hardly to be expected under these conditions .
however , immortalization was frequently observed .
therefore the induction of immortalization appears indirect .
the progeny of benzo(a)pyrene treated cells immortalized with a rate of 3.9 x 10(-8)/cell/generation , which is 64 times higher than the spontaneous rate .
the results are in line with the probabilistic theory developed in 1980 by both fernandez et al .
( proc .
natl .
acad .
sci .
usa , 77 : 7272-7276 , 1980 ) and kennedy et al .
( proc .
natl .
acad .
sci .
usa , 77 : 7262-7266 , 1980 ) , which states that treatment of cells with a carcinogen can result in a so-called activated state of the treated cells which is transmitted to the progeny and which results in an enhanced rate of transforming events .
the protein toxins ricin , abrin , shiga toxin , and diphtheria toxin were found to induce lysis of several cell lines in a manner characteristic for programmed cell death or apoptosis .
the toxins induced dna degradation , and light and electron microscopical studies revealed that lysis was preceded by reorganization of intracellular vacuoles , cell blebbing , and chromatin condensation both in vero and in mdck cells .
cell lysis was efficiently inhibited by cycloheximide and 3-methyladenine ( 3ma ) , a specific inhibitor of autophagy .
cycloheximide , which like 3ma inhibits autophagy , protected even when added at a time when the protein synthesis had been blocked by ricin , suggesting that the effect of cycloheximide on cell lysis is independent of its ability to inhibit protein synthesis .
also theophylline and dibutyryl-cgmp had some protective effect , whereas a number of compounds reported to protect against apoptosis in other systems were without protective effects .
the data suggest that autophagy is important for the toxin-induced cell lysis .
clones of mortal chicken fibroblasts and erythroblasts transformed by temperature-sensitive v-src and v-erb b oncoproteins have been developed into immortal cell lines that retain the conditional transformed phenotype .
the expressions of two tumor suppressor genes , the retinoblastoma ( rb ) gene and the p53 gene , were investigated during senescence , crisis , and cell line establishment .
in temperature-sensitive ( ts)-v-erb b erythroblasts and ts-v-src fibroblasts ( as well as in v-myc macrophages ) , loss of p53 mrna or expression of a mutated p53 gene invariably occurred in the early phase of immortalization .
in contrast , expression of the rb gene was unchanged at all stages of immortalization .
inactivation of the original temperature-sensitive oncogene led to loss of the transformed phenotype in fibroblasts and to differentiation in erythroblasts , even in lines that were immortal and lacked p53 .
the results demonstrate that the process of immortalization is distinct from cell transformation , probably requiring different mutational events .
findings of increased numbers of epidermal growth factor receptors ( egf-r ) and increased expression of transforming growth factor alpha ( tgf-alpha ) in surgical specimens of human renal cell carcinoma have led to the proposal that growth of these tumors may be regulated by tgf-alpha in an autocrine manner .
in the studies presented here , we have examined this hypothesis using two human renal carcinoma cell lines , skrc-4 and skrc-29 .
we demonstrated that both skrc-4 and skrc-29 cells were growth stimulated by greater than 35% when cultured in the presence of tgf-alpha or egf and were inhibited by 29% to 46% if cultured in the presence of anti-egf-r monoclonal antibody 225 .
treatment of cells with tgf-alpha enhanced the levels of expression of egf-r mrna and tgf-alpha mrna .
in addition , incubation of cells with monoclonal antibody 225 significantly elevated the levels of excreted tgf-alpha species in the culture medium .
our findings suggest that proliferation of human renal carcinoma cells may be regulated by endogenously produced tgf-alpha and that this regulatory pathway can be interrupted using antibody to its receptor , egf-r .
the immune system has an important role in tumor appearance and spreading .
one of the most efficient subpopulations of cytotoxic cells in the destruction of tumors are nk cells .
nk cells are activated and increase their cytotoxic potential and modulate their cytokine production after treatment with ifngamma , il-12 , tnfalpha and il-2 .
the investigation of the activity of nk cells was performed on peripheral blood lymphocytes ( pbl ) of 16 healthy controls and of 40 patients with metastatic breast carcinoma .
modulation of nk cells was performed with il-2 , il-7 , il-12 , tnfalpha , monoclonal antibodies ( mab ) for tnfalpha and tnfalpha receptors type i and ii , as well as with sera of healthy controls and patients with breast cancer in different clinical stages .
modulating effect of the applied factors after in vitro treatment of pbl was evaluated by the cytotoxic assay using 51chromium .
our results indicate that il-2 significantly increased the activity of nk cells of controls and breast cancer patients .
the sera of patients with advanced breast cancer significantly reduced nk cell activity .
il-7 , il-12 and mab for tnfalpha do not significantly change the activity of nk cells .
the presence of anti-tnfalpha mab did not change the inhibitory effect of the sera of breast cancer patients with advanced disease on the activity of nk cells of controls and patients with breast cancer .
blocking of tnfalpha rcs with mabs decrease the reactivity of nk cells for il-2 .
the treatment of breast cancer patients with advanced clinical stage of breast cancer with il-2 , as an additional therapy , could be advantageous , as nk cells after this treatment increase their cytotoxic activity against tumor cells and can improve therapeutical results .
considerable debate centers on the optimal treatment for vulvar melanoma , as well as those clinicopathological factors influencing prognosis .
we reviewed 80 patients with vulvar melanoma seen between 1949 and 1990 .
primary tumors were assessed according to chung ( 47 patients ) and breslow ( 65 patients ) microstaging systems .
fifty-nine patients ( 76% ) underwent radical vulvectomy , ten patients ( 13% ) had a partial vulvectomy , and nine patients ( 12% ) had a wide local excision .
fifty-six also underwent inguinal node dissection .
median follow-up was 193 months .
median survival was 63 months .
ten-year survival by chung level was as follows : i 100% ; ii , 81% ; iii , 87% ; iv , 11% ; v , 33% .
ten-year survival by tumor thickness was as follows : 0.75 mm , 48% ; 0.75-1.5 mm , 68% ; 1.51-3.0 mm , 44% ; greater than 3.0 mm , 22% .
increased depth of invasion was associated with increased incidence of inguinal node metastasis .
cox regression analysis demonstrated prognostic significance for tumor thickness ( p less than 0.001 ) , inguinal node metastasis ( p less than 0.001 ) , and older age at diagnosis ( p less than 0.001 ) .
radical vulvectomy did not seem to improve survival over less radical procedures .
based on this experience , we recommend radical local excision for patients with malignant melanoma of the vulva .
patients who have more than a superficially invasive melanoma should also have inguinal lymph node dissection .
many human cellular and tissue compartments are supersaturated with respect to calcium oxyanion salts .
in order to prevent the formation of injurious crystals efficient anti-crystallization protective mechanisms must be necessary .
we suggest that depletion of such systems , particularly in ageing organisms and under conditions of oxidative stress , plays an important role in degenerative and inflammatory diseases , including cancer .
tricyclic antidepressants , such as amitriptyline ( elavil ) , and the nontricyclic agent , fluoxetine ( prozac ) , bind to growth-regulatory intracellular histamine receptors , associated with anti-estrogen binding sites in microsomes and nuclei .
the prototype anti-estrogen binding site/intracellular histamine receptor ligand , n,n-diethyl-2-[4-(phenylmethyl)phenoxy]ethanamine hcl , inhibits normal cell proliferation in vitro but stimulates tumor growth in vivo .
because of their structural similarity to n,n-diethyl-2-[4-(phenylmethyl)phenoxy]ethanamine hcl , we carried out studies to determine whether amitriptyline and fluoxetine stimulate tumor growth and/or development in rodents at concentrations relevant to the treatment of human depression ( equivalent human dose range , approximately 100-150 mg/day for amitriptyline and approximately 20-80 mg/day for fluoxetine ) .
all experiments were performed blinded .
in studies of growth stimulation of transplantable syngeneic tumors , groups of mice were inoculated s.c. with c-3 fibrosarcoma cells or given i.v. or s.c. injections of b16f10 melanoma cells , followed 24 h later by daily i.p. injections of saline , amitriptyline , or fluoxetine .
tumor latency ( fibrosarcoma ) , aggregate tumor weight ( s.c. injected melanoma ) , or time to death from pulmonary metastasis ( i.v. injected melanoma ) was determined ; drug-induced stimulation of dna synthesis in c-3 fibrosarcoma cells in vitro was correlated with tumor growth acceleration in vivo .
in a mammary carcinogenesis model , the effects of chronic saline , amitriptyline , or fluoxetine administration on the rate and frequency of development of mammary tumors in rats fed dimethylbenzanthracene ( dmba ) were compared .
eight of 20 amitriptyline- or fluoxetine-treated mice developed fibrosarcoma tumors by day 5 , as compared to none of 20 saline controls ( p less than 0.002 ) .
similarly , 20 of 21 dmba-treated rats receiving the antidepressant drugs developed 33 mammary tumors by week 15 as compared to 5 tumors in 4 of 7 dmba-treated rats receiving saline ( p less than 0.001 ) .
for both models , tumor latency decreased 30-40% and , in the dmba model , tumor frequency increased greater than 2-fold in the antidepressant-treated rats as compared to controls .
stimulation of fibrosarcoma growth in vivo correlated with a corresponding bell-shaped drug-induced increase in dna synthesis in vitro .
while the median time to death from pulmonary metastases did not differ among groups given i.v. injections of melanoma cells , a significant ( p less than 0.01 ) stimulation of growth of s.c. injected melanoma was observed in mice receiving the antidepressants.(abstract truncated at 400 words )
twelve postmenopausal women ( 54-93 years ) with primary breast carcinoma were treated with tamoxifen due to infirmity or refusal to undergo surgery .
seven premenopausal patients ( 32-50 years ) were given preoperative chemotherapy because of large tumors or inflammatory carcinoma .
fine-needle aspiration biopsy was used to procure tumor cells for diagnosis , hormone receptor determination and analysis of proliferation fraction .
aspirations were repeated every 3 months in the tamoxifen group and each month in patients receiving chemotherapy .
two patients who responded to tamoxifen had tumors with more than 75% estrogen receptor positive cells .
a decreased proliferation fraction was observed in two tumors responding to tamoxifen .
eight patients , all with estrogen receptor positive tumors , had stable disease .
progressive disease was observed in two patients with less than 25% receptor positive cells .
in these tumors the percentage of proliferating cells remained high during therapy .
objective response was recorded for six patients treated with chemotherapy .
the clinical response was reflected in a decreased proliferation fraction .
no correlation was observed between response and percentage of proliferating cells in the untreated tumor .
the results suggest that analysis of tumor cell characteristics such as hormone receptor content and proliferation fraction can be used to predict and monitor response to endocrine treatment and chemotherapy in breast carcinomas .
because prl has growth factor activities in several tissues , we have asked whether it also has autocrine growth factor activity in pituitary gh3 cells .
gh3 cells were grown at increasing densities in the presence or absence of antirat prl ( polyclonal and monoclonal ) or nonspecific antibodies .
cell proliferation increased with increasing cell density , as did the concentration of prl in the medium .
antirat prl , but not control antibody , markedly inhibited but did not eliminate cell proliferation , and this effect was diminished with increasing prl concentration in the medium .
prl receptors were demonstrated on 40-50% of the cells by indirect immunofluorescence using a specific antirat prl receptor monoclonal antibody .
cell surface prl was colocalized to the same 40-50% of the cells and copatched or cocapped along with the receptors .
absence or presence of prl receptors did not correlate with stage of the cell cycle , as judged by ethidium bromide dual labeling .
cell surface prl was found to be on prl-containing cells .
these data have fulfilled four criteria necessary for establishment of a substance as a secreted autocrine growth factor : 1 ) the factor must be secreted ; 2 ) in log growth phase , increased cell proliferation should occur at increased cell densities ; 3 ) the cells must display a receptor for the factor ; and 4 ) there must be a growth response to the factor .
thus we have established that prl is an autocrine growth factor for at least 40-50% of the gh3 cell population .
this , to our knowledge , is the first example of autocrine growth factor activity of a major hormone normotopically expressed .
the study focuses on the effects of combined oral contraceptives ( cocs ) on the onset of cervical dysplasia among zimbabwean women .
women who had used cocs for at least 2 years and were in continued use were compared to non-users of cocs ( control group ) .
it was difficult to establish the average period of contraceptive use because in most instances there was no proper documentation on the exact dates as to when the subjects started using cocs .
the number of subjects with each condition was noted from each of the following age groups ; &lt;20 years , 20-29years , 30-39years , 40-49years and &gt;50years .
it was found that the percentage of the control group with benign conditions was higher than that of coc users in all age groups .
significant differences at 95 percent confidence level were noted for the 20-29 years age group ( z= -2.21 ) and 40-49 years age group ( z= -2.53).the number of subjects in the &lt;20 years and &gt;50 years age groups were too small for z-score computation .
no significant differences were noted for mild to moderate cervical inflammation in all age groups .
there was a higher percentage of coc users with severe cervical inflammation compared to the control group in all age groups .
significant differences were noted in the 30-39 years age group ( z=3.45 ) and 40-49 years age group ( z= 1.98 ) .
a higher percentage of cin i was noted among pooled coc users compared to the control group ( z= 2.00 ) although no significant differences were obtained within different age groups .
in conclusion , severe cervical inflammation and cin i are more frequent among zimbabwean women who use cocs as compared to non-users of cocs .
frequencies of advanced cin are low among women who undergo routine cytological screening because this enables early detection and subsequent treatment .
we have constructed plasmids ps3g-1 and psg4 that contain single acetylaminofluorene adducts within contiguous runs of three ( 5'-cccg1g2g3-3' ) and four ( 5'-cg1ggg4t-3' ) guanine residues , respectively .
in escherichia coli , the frequency of induced -1 frameshift mutations was strongly dependent on the position of modification : ps3g-g3 was approximately 100-fold and 10-fold more mutagenic than ps3g-g1 and ps3g-g2 , respectively ; psg4-g4 was approximately 600-fold more mutagenic than psg4-g1 .
mutagenesis was sos-dependent and was markedly reduced in bacteria that were proficient in nucleotide excision repair as compared to a repair-deficient uvra6 mutant .
dna sequencing showed that -1 frameshift events in ps3g-1 consisted of either targeted mutations ( greater than 90% of induced mutations ) within the guanine sequence or semitargeted mutations ( greater than 10% ) in the 5 ' flanking repetitive cytosine sequence .
semitargeted events , which were observed when acetylaminofluorene modification was at g1 and g2 , show that a lesion can reduce the fidelity of replication at positions 5 ' to its location on the template strand .
no semitargeted frameshifts were observed in plasmid psg4 , which lacks a repetitive sequence 5 ' to the adduct .
our results are consistent with a model for frameshift mutagenesis in which the acetylaminofluorene adduct ( i ) allows accurate incorporation of cytosine opposite the bulky lesion during dna synthesis and ( ii ) impedes elongation of primer/template termini formed opposite the adduct or 5 ' to the adduct on the template strand , providing increased opportunity for the formation of slipped frameshift intermediates .
novel photosensitizers hypocrellin a ( ha ) and hypocrellin b ( hb ) , lipid soluble perylquinone derivatives of the genus hypericum have a strong photodynamic effect on tumors and viruses .
however , the mechanisms of tumor cell death induced by ha and hb are still unclear .
in this study , we attempt to elucidate the photodynamic effects of ha and hb compounds in poorly differentiated ( cne2 ) and moderately differentiated ( tw0-1 ) human nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( npc ) cells as well as human mucosal colon ( ccl-220.1 ) and bladder ( sd ) cells .
using these cell lines we investigated few hall marks of apoptotic commitments in a drug and light dose dependent manner .
tumor cells photoactivated with ha and hb showed cell size shrinkage and an increase in the sub-diploid dna content .
a loss of membrane phospholipid asymmetry associated with apoptosis was induced by all tumor cell lines as evidenced by the externalization of phosphatidylserine .
western blot analysis of poly ( adp-ribose ) polymerase , a caspases substrate , showed the classical cleavage pattern ( 116 to 85kda ) associated with apoptosis in ha and hb-treated cell lysates .
in addition , parp cleavage was blocked by using tetrapepdide caspases inhibitors such as devd or z-vad .
these results demonstrate that tumor cell death induced by hb and ha is mediated by caspase proteases .
this study also identifies both colon and bladder cells were more sensitive cell lines than npc ( cne2 and two-1 ) cell lines .
we have investigated the cytotoxic activity , the induction of apoptosis , and the interstrand cross-linking efficiency in the a2780cisr ovarian tumor cell line , after replacement of the two nh3 nonleaving groups in trans-[ptcl2(nh3)2] ( trans-ddp ) by dimethylamine and isopropylamine .
the data show that trans-[ptcl2(nh(ch)2)(nhch(ch3)2)] is able to circumvent resistance to cis-[ptcl2(nh3)2] ( cis-ddp , cisplatin ) in a2780cisr cells .
in fact , trans-[ptcl2(nh(ch3)2)(nhch(ch3)2)] shows a cytotoxic potency higher than that of cis-ddp and trans-ddp , with the mean ic50 values being 11 , 58 , and 300 microm , respectively .
in addition , at equitoxic doses ( concentrations of the platinum drugs equal to their ic50 values ) and after 24 hours of drug treatment , the level of induction of apoptosis by trans-[ptcl2(nh(ch3)2)(nhch(ch3)2)] is twice that produced by cis-ddp .
under the same experimental conditions , trans-ddp does not induce significant levels of apoptosis in a2780cisr cells .
after 24 hours of incubation of a2780cisr cells at concentrations equal to the ic0o value of the platinum drugs , the level of dna interstrand cross-links ( icls ) induced by trans-[ptci2(nh(ch)2)(nhch(ch3)] is two and three times higher , respectively , than those induced by cis-ddp and trans-ddp .
we also found that trans-[ptcl2(nh(ch3)2)(nhch(ch3)2)] formed dna icls between guanine and complementary cytosine .
we propose that , in a2780cisr cells , the induction of apoptosis by trans-[ptcl2(nh(ch3)2)(nhch(ch3)2)] is related to its greater ability ( relative to cis-ddp and trans-ddp ) to form dna icls .
the morphology characteristics of cell apoptosis of the malignant tumour cells in magnetic field-treated mouse was observed for the first time .
the apoptotic cancer cell contracted , became rounder and divorced from adjacent cells ; the heterochromatin condensed and coagulated together along the inner side of the nuclear membrane ; the endoplasmic reticulums ( er ) expanded and fused with the cellular membrane ; many apoptotic bodies which were packed by the cellular membrane appeared and were devoured by some lymphocytes and plasma .
apoptosis of cancer cells was detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediatedin situ nick end labeling ( tunel ) .
it was found that the number of apoptosis cancer cells of the sample treated by the magnetic field is more than that of the control sample .
the growth of malignant tumour in mice was inhibited and the ability of immune cell to dissolve cancer cells was improved by ultralow frequency ( ulf ) pulsed gradient magnetic field ; the nuclei dna contents decreased , indicating that magnetic field can block dna replication and inhibit mitosis of cancer cells .
it was suggested that magnetic field could inhibit the metabolism of cancer cell , lower its malignancy , and restrain its rapid and heteromorphic growth .
since ulf pulsed gradient magnetic field can induce apoptosis of cancer cells and inhibit the growth of malignant tumour , it could be used as a new method to treat cancer .
abstract partial dna fragments of botrytis cinerea field isolates encoding the putative osmosensor histidine kinase gene ( bcos1 ) were cloned by polymerase chain reaction amplification and the predicted amino acid sequences were compared between dicarboximide-sensitive and resistant field isolates .
the predicted bcos1p is highly homologous to osmosensor histidine kinase os1p from neurospora crassa including the n-terminal six tandem repeats of approximately 90 amino acids .
four dicarboximide-resistant isolates of b. cinerea ( bc-19 , bc-45 , bc-682 , and bc-rkr ) contained a single base pair mutation in their bcos1 gene that resulted in an amino acid substitution in the predicted protein .
in these resistant isolates , codon 86 of the second repeat , which encodes an isoleucine residue in sensitive strains , was converted to a codon for serine .
the mutation of botrytis field resistant isolates was located on the second unit of tandem amino acid repeats of bcos1p , whereas the point mutations of the fifth repeat of os1p confer resistance to both dicarboximides and phenylpyrroles and also osmotic sensitivity in neurospora crassa .
these results suggest that an amino acid substitution within the second repeat of bcos1p is responsible for phenotypes of field resistant isolates ( resistant to dicarboximides but sensitive to phenylpyrroles , and normal osmotic sensitivity ) in b. cinerea .
an aqueous extract of kefir , fermented milk originally produced in the caucasus mountains , suppressed morphological changes of human melanoma hmv-1 and sk-mel cells and human normal fibroblasttig-1 cells caused by uvc-irradiation , suggesting that uv damage can be suppressed by the kefir extract .
the addition of the kefir extract after uvc-irradiation of hvm-1 cells resulted in a remarkable decrease in intracellular reactive oxygen species ( ros ) which had been increased by uvc irradiation .
the kefir extract also stimulated unscheduled dna synthesis and suppressed uvc-induced apoptosis of hmv-1 cells .
a colony formation assay revealed that the kefir extract rescued hmv-1 cells from cell death caused by uvc irradiation .
the kefir extract , as well as methyl methanethiosulfonate which is known to enhance the nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) activity , exhibited strong thymine dimer repair-enhancing activity .
epigalocatechin exhibited a weak ner activity but vitamins a , c , and e and catechin showed no ner activity .
the thymine dimer repair-enhancing factors in the kefir extract were heat-stable and assumed to be molecules with a molecular weight of less than 5000 .
the treatment of hmv-1 cells with the kefir extract during or before uvc- irradiation also prevented the generation of ros and thymine dimmer , and suppressed the apoptosis of hmv-1 cells , suggesting that application of kefir can prevent uv damage .
biomaterials such as polyetherurethans ( peus ) are the scaffolding , which is indispensable for the development of the bio-artificial organs .
however , peus can induce tumors in subcutaneous implantation sites in rat .
we have shown that the different inhibitory potential of gap junctional intercellular communication ( gjic ) on the surface of the biomaterials , including peus , is a key step in determining the tumorigenic potential .
here we show that suppression of a gap junctional protein connexin 43 ( cx43 ) plays an important role in in vivo tumorigenesis induced by peus for the first time and that cx43 transfection may be an effective strategy for preventing tumorigenesis induced by biomaterials .
rat tumor cell line u41 is derived from tumors in the subcutaneous implantation of peu films .
the gjic and the expression of cx43 were suppressed in u41 .
the restoration of normal phenotype , such as reduction of growth rate , recovery of contact inhibition and loss of colony formation ability in soft agar , was achieved by cx43 transfection .
these results strongly suggest that suppression of cx43 expression plays an important role in the development of rat malignant fibrous histiocytoma ( mfhc ) caused by peus and that cx43 transfection is effective for prevention of tumorigenesis induced by peus .
the involvement of iron and inflammation parameters on overall survival in non-small-cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) patients was studied .
furthermore , transferrin receptors 1 ( tfr1 ) and ferritin expression in tumor tissue , tumor stroma , and normal lung tissue were analyzed .
iron metabolism and inflammation parameters were determined by automated laboratory measurements at the time of diagnosis .
tfr1 and ferritin expression were determined by immuno-histochemical methods .
about 50% of patients survived 12 months only .
at the time of diagnosis more than half of the patients had anemia and significantly elevated serum ferritin .
iron content of serum ferritin ( icf ) was below the reference values in 90% of patients .
furthermore , icf showed positive correlation with iron metabolic parameters and survival but negative correlation with serum ferritin and esr .
the expression of tfr1 and ferritin in tumor cells was observed in 88% or 62% of patients , respectively .
tumor stroma was tfr1 negative and sporadically ferritin positive .
tumor tissue ferritin expression showed negative correlation with serum iron and hematokrit ( ht ) , and positive correlation with ferritin , erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( esr ) , alpha-1 globulin , and alpha-2 globulin .
positive correlation was found between tfr1 expression in tumor tissue and alpha-globulin .
the correlation between tfr1/ferritin expression in tumor tissue and icf or survival was not observed .
therefore , we conclude that elevated serum ferritin in sera of nsclc patients is the result of inflammation and oxidative stress rather than body iron overload .
higher expression of ferritin in tumor tissue may be the consequence of iron deficiency or local toxicity induced by environmental factors .
ferric nitrilotriacetate ( fe-nta ) is a potent nephrotoxicant and a renal carcinogen that induces its effect by causing oxidative stress .
the present study was undertaken to explore protective effect of silymarin , a flavonolignan from milk thistle ( silybum marianum ) , against fe-nta mediated renal oxidative stress , inflammation and tumor promotion response along with elucidation of the implicated mechanism(s) .
administration of fe-nta ( 10 mg/kg bd wt , i.p. ) to swiss albino mice induced marked oxidative stress in kidney , evident from augmentation in renal metallothionein ( mt ) expression , depletion of glutathione content and activities of antioxidant and phase ii metabolizing enzymes , and enhancement in production of aldehyde products such as 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal .
fe-nta also significantly activated nuclear factor kappa b ( nfkappab ) and upregulated the expression of downstream genes : cyclooxygenase 2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase and enhancing the production of proinflammatory cytokines : tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) and interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) .
however , feeding of 0.5% and 1% silymarin diet conferred a significant protection against fe-nta induced oxidative stress and inflammation .
it further augmented mt expression , restored the antioxidant armory , ameliorated nfkappab activation and decreased the expression of proinflammatory mediators .
silymarin also suppressed fe-nta induced hyperproliferation in kidney , ameliorating renal ornithine decarboxylase activity and dna synthesis .
from these results , it could be concluded that silymarin markedly protects against chemically induced renal cancer and acts plausibly by virtue of its antioxidant , anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative activities .
nucling is a stress-inducible protein associated with apoptosomes .
the cytochrome c-triggered formation of apoptosomes represents a key-initiating event in apoptosis .
we have recently reported that nucling regulates the apoptotic pathway by controlling the activation of nf-kappab as well .
here we show that hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) arising spontaneously against a background of hepatitis occurred more frequently in nucling-knockout ( ko ) mice than wild-type ( wt ) mice .
biochemical serum testing revealed potential liver dysfunction with hypercholesterolemia in nucling-ko males .
in the background of nucling-ko mice , we observed the up-regulation of tnfalpha , spontaneous nf-kappab-activation and the induction of galectin-3 expression in liver .
in addition , we observed a decrease in the number of kupffer cells ( kcs ) in the ko mice .
kcs are important for the hepatic immune system , acting as phagocytes or antigen-presenting cells ( apcs ) .
we found that kcs in nucling-ko mice were apoptotic possibly through the up-regulation of tnfalpha .
these observations indicate that nucling is important for the regulation of nf-kappab signals in liver .
we propose that nucling deficiency could be a powerful tool to reveal the nf-kappab-related molecular networks leading to hepatitis and hcc development .
purpose metabolic dependence on glucose utilisation has been described for different tumours characterised by activation of akt , upregulation of glut1 , m2pk and tktl1 .
to date , however , little is known about glucose metabolism in breast cancer tissue .
methods we analysed 55 breast cancer specimens , 26 adjacent ductal carcinomas in situ ( dcis ) and 23 adjacent normal breast tissues for expression of glycolytic markers by immunohistochemistry .
results we found expression of pakt in 49% , glut1 in 25% , m2pk in 68% and tktl1 in 31% of the tumours investigated .
expression of pakt and her2neu are positively correlated with borderline significance ( p = 0.055 ) .
expression of pakt , glut1 and tktl1 were higher in breast cancer and dcis than in normal tissue .
surprisingly , m2pk expression was highest in normal breast tissue .
conclusions we found a glycolytic phenotype in a high percentage of breast cancer samples .
inhibition of glycolysis might evolve as a future option for breast cancer therapy .
background &amp ; aims hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) is an aggressive malignancy with few treatment options .
as the status of the tumour immune microenvironment can affect progression of established tumours , we evaluated potential immune mechanisms associated with survival in hcc .
methods immune gene expression profiles were analyzed in tumour and non-tumour liver tissues from resected hcc patients using quantitative pcr and immunohistochemistry .
tumour-infiltrating leukocytes ( tils ) were isolated to verify the expression of immune genes and to identify proliferating tils .
these parameters were analyzed statistically in relation with patient survival and tumour phenotype ( apoptosis and proliferation ) .
results the immune microenvironment within tumours was found to be heterogeneous , although globally more inert compared to the adjacent non-tumour liver tissue .
univariate analysis in 61 patients identified a group of innate immune genes whose expression within tumours is positively associated with patient survival .
tnf , il6 and ccl2 are the most significant genes , with tnf being an independent predictor of survival in multivariate analysis .
the gene set includes macrophage and nk-associated molecules such as tlr4 , tlr3 , ccr2 , ncr3 .
most of these molecules are expressed by tils .
importantly , proliferating immune cells , predominantly nk and t cells , are present in tumours of patients with longer survival , and exclusively in areas devoid of proliferating tumour cells .
nk and cd8(+) t cell densities are correlated positively with tumour apoptosis , and negatively with tumour proliferation .
conclusions hence , an inflammatory immune microenvironment within hcc tumours could be an important means to control tumour progression via til activation and proliferation .
background &amp ; aims gucy2c is the intestinal receptor for the paracrine hormones guanylin and uroguanylin that converts guanosine-5'-triphosphate to cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( cgmp ) .
it functions as a tumor suppressor ; its loss disrupts intestinal homeostasis and promotes tumorigenesis .
we investigated the effects of gucy2c loss on intestinal cell proliferation , metabolism , signaling , and tumorigenesis in mice .
methods intestinal cell proliferation and metabolism were examined in gucy2c(-/-) and colon cancer cells by microscopy , immunoblot , and functional analyses .
microarray analyses compared gene expression profiles of intestine cell from gucy2c(-/-) and wild-type mice. v akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog ( akt ) regulation and signaling were examined , and the role of akt in gucy2c-dependent tumorigenesis was defined in gucy2c(-/-)akt1(-/-) mice .
results the size and number of intestinal crypts increased in gucy2c(-/-) mice ; the associated epithelial cells showed accelerated proliferation , increased glycolysis , and reduced oxidative phosphorylation , which was reversed by oral administration of cgmp .
conversely , activating guanylyl cyclase c in human colon cancer cells delayed cell-cycle progression , decreased dna synthesis and colony formation , reduced glycolysis , and increased mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate production .
akt signaling pathways were activated in intestines of gucy2c(-/-) mice , associated with increased akt phosphorylation .
disruption of akt activity , pharmacologically or genetically , reduced dna synthesis , proliferation , and glycolysis , and increased mitochondrial biogenesis .
intestinal tumorigenesis increased after administration of azoxymethane to gucy2c(-/-) mice , compared with wild-type mice , but was eliminated in gucy2c(-/-)akt1(-/-) mice .
conclusions gucy2c is a tumor suppressor that controls proliferation and metabolism of intestinal epithelial cells by inactivating akt signaling .
this receptor and its ligands , which are paracrine hormones , might be novel candidates for anticolorectal cancer therapy .
inflammatory response plays an important role not only in the normal physiology but also in the pathology such as cancers .
as chronic inflammations are associated with malignancies , it is important to prevent inflammation-mediated neoplastic formation , promotion and/or progression .
one possible intervention will be using cancer chemopreventive agents such as curcumin ( cur ) , a potent anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative stress compound .
polyunsaturated fatty acids ( pufa ) such as docosahexaenoic acid ( dha ) or eicosapentaenoic acid ( epa ) are potent anti-inflammatory agents by decreasing the production of inflammatory eicosanoids , cytokines , and reactive oxygen species ( ros ) .
the present study aims at examining whether cur with dha or epa would have synergistic anti-inflammatory effects in raw 264.7 cells .
non-toxic concentrations of single and combination of the compounds were investigated at 6 , 12 and 24h .
the nitric oxide ( no ) suppression effects were most prominent at 24h .
all the combinations of cur and dha or epa with lower concentrations of cur 5 microm and 25 microm of dha or epa were found to have synergistic effects in suppressing lps-stimulated no and endogenous no levels .
importantly , very low doses of cur 2.5 microm and dha or epa of 0.78 microm could synergistically suppress the lps-induced prostaglandin e(2) ( pge(2) ) .
the combinations were also found to suppress inos , cox-2 , 5-lipoxygenase ( 5-lox ) and cpla(2) but induce ho-1 .
taken together , the present study clearly shows the synergistic anti-inflammatory as well as anti-oxidative stress effects of cur and pufa .
pten loss of function enhances proliferation , but effects on cellular energy metabolism are less well characterized .
we used an inducible pten expression vector in a pten-null glioma cell line to examine this issue .
while proliferation of pten-positive cells was insensitive to increases in glucose concentration beyond 2.5mm , pten-null cells significantly increased proliferation with increasing glucose concentration across the normal physiologic range to approximately 10mm , coinciding with a shift to glycolysis and " glucose addiction " .
this demonstrates that the impact of loss of function of pten is modified by glucose concentration , and may be relevant to epidemiologic results linking hyperglycemia to cancer risk and cancer mortality .
earlier studies indicated that density-arrested cancer cells released an unidentified growth inhibitor whose secretion was prevented by overexpression of the lysosomal protease cathepsin d ( cath d ) .
in this study , this growth inhibitor was purified by affinity chromatography and identified as the heat shock cognate 70 protein ( hsc70 ) based on its peptide microsequencing and specific antibody recognition .
among intracellular proteins , including other heat shock proteins , only constitutive hsc70 was secreted in response to the high-cell density .
moreover , hsc70 secretion from cancer cells was generated by serum deprivation , whereas its cellular concentration did not change .
prevention of hsc70 secretion by cath d overexpression was associated with the formation of multilayer cell cultures , thus indicating a loss of contact inhibition .
in addition , we showed that supplementing the culture medium with purified hsc70 inhibited cell proliferation in the nanomolar range .
conversely , removal of this extracellular hsc70 from the medium by either retention on adp-agarose or competition at the hsc70 binding site restored cell proliferation .
hsc70 appears active in human breast cancer cells and hypersecreted by direct cath d inhibition .
these results suggest a new role of this secreted hsc70 chaperone in cell proliferation that might account for the higher tumor growth of cancer cells overexpressing cath d .
manganese , an essential trace nutrient in human beings , has been widely used in the steel industry to improve hardness , stiffness , and strength .
with the increased applications of manganese compounds , discharge into the environment has rapidly increased and may exert adverse effects on human health .
in this study , manganese toxicity was investigated using cultured t98g cells , which are derived from human glioblasts with the ability to differentiate into several different types of neuroglia .
cytotoxicity was shown in manganese-treated groups ( 100 , 200 , 400 , and 800microm of mncl(2) ) , and cell viability was decreased to 58.8% of the control group at 2days after treatment with 800microm of mncl(2) .
when cells were treated with manganese for 24h , ros dose-dependently increased while antioxidant intracellular gsh decreased .
with the generation of ros , the increased activity of caspase-3 was shown , and was followed by chromatin condensation and breakage , which is an indication of the cellular apoptotic process .
ros also triggered pro-inflammatory responses in cultured t98g cells , which were demonstrated by the increased gene expression and protein levels of il-6 and il-8 .
gliomas are aggressive and almost incurable glial brain tumors which frequently display abnormal platelet-derived growth factor ( pdgf ) signaling .
evidence gained from studies on several in vivo animal models has firmly established a causal connection between aberrant pdgf signaling and the formation of some gliomas .
however , only recently has significant knowledge been gained regarding crucial issues such as the glioma cell of origin and the relationship between the transforming stimulus and the cellular characteristics of the resulting tumor .
based on recent evidence , we propose that pdgf can bias cell-fate decisions , driving the acquisition of cell type-specific features by the progeny of multipotent neural progenitors , thus determining the shape and direction of the transformation path .
furthermore , recent data about the cellular mechanisms of pdgf-driven glioma progression and maintenance indicate that pdgf may be required , unexpectedly , to override cell contact inhibition and promote glioma cell infiltration rather than to stimulate cell proliferation .
inflammation which is an indispensable participant in tumor progression is intricately linked with redox modulation .
the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor ( tnfalpha ) elevates reactive oxygen species ( ros ) in glioblastoma multiforme ( gbm ) .
as both tnfalpha and oxidative stress independently play role in regulating cytoskeletal organization and cell survival pathways we investigated whether tnfalpha mediated oxidative stress regulates responses that offer survival advantages to glioblastoma cells .
treatment with tnfalpha elevated akt phosphorylation in glioma cells .
increased in akt phosphorylation was concurrent with the decrease in ros scavenger sod-1 levels .
tnfalpha mediated increase in akt phosphorylation was dependent on oxidative stress as akt phosphorylation was abrogated in the presence of ros inhibitor and elevated in cells transfected with sod-1 sirna .
tnfalpha altered actin cytoskeletal organization and increased cdc42 levels .
this increase in cdc42 was concomitant with its increased interaction with scaffold protein iqgap-1 .
also , we report for the first time a ros dependent interaction between pakt and iqgap-1 in tnfalpha treated cells .
importantly , akt inhibition not only reversed tnfalpha mediated changes in actin cytoskeletal organization but also abrogated anchorage independent growth .
together , these results suggest that tnfalpha induced oxidative stress affects akt activation to regulate actin organization and growth of glioma cells .
tumor endothelial marker ( tem ) 5 is an adhesion g-protein-coupled receptor upregulated in endothelial cells during tumor and physiologic angiogenesis .
so far , the mechanisms leading to upregulation of tem5 and its function during angiogenesis have not been identified .
here , we report that tem5 expression in endothelial cells is induced during capillary-like network formation on matrigel , during capillary morphogenesis in a three-dimensional collagen i matrix , and upon confluence on a two-dimensional matrix .
tem5 expression was not induced by a variety of soluble angiogenic factors , including vegf and bfgf , in subconfluent endothelial cells .
tem5 upregulation was blocked by toxin b from clostridium difficile , an inhibitor of the small gtpases rho , rac , and cdc42 .
the rho inhibitor c3 transferase from clostridium botulinum did not affect tem5 expression , whereas the rac inhibitor nsc23766 suppressed tem5 upregulation .
an excess of the soluble tem5 extracellular domain or an inhibitory monoclonal tem5 antibody blocked contact inhibition of endothelial cell proliferation resulting in multilayered islands within the endothelial monolayer and increased vessel density during capillary formation .
based on our results we conclude that tem5 expression during capillary morphogenesis is induced by the small gtpase rac and mediates contact inhibition of proliferation in endothelial cells .
in cancer cells , glucose is often converted into lactic acid , which is known as the ' warburg effect ' .
the reason that cancer cells have a higher rate of aerobic glycolysis , but not oxidative phosphorylation , remains largely unclear .
herein , we proposed an epigenetic mechanism of the warburg effect .
fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase-1 ( fbp1 ) , which functions to antagonize glycolysis was downregulated through nf-kappab pathway in ras-transformed nih3t3 cells .
restoration of fbp1 expression suppressed anchorage-independent growth , indicating the relevance of fbp1 downregulation in carcinogenesis .
indeed , fbp1 was downregulated in gastric carcinomas ( p&lt;0.01 , n=22 ) and gastric cancer cell lines ( 57% , 4/7 ) .
restoration of fbp1 expression reduced growth and glycolysis in gastric cancer cells .
moreover , fbp1 downregulation was reversed by pharmacological demethylation .
its promoter was hypermethylated in gastric cancer cell lines ( 57% , 4/7 ) and gastric carcinomas ( 33% , 33/101 ) .
inhibition of nf-kappab restored fbp1 expression , partially through demethylation of fbp1 promoter .
notably , cox regression analysis revealed fbp1 promoter methylation as an independent prognosis predicator for gastric cancer ( hazard ratio : 3.60 , p=0.010 ) .
in summary , we found that nf-kappab functions downstream of ras to promote epigenetic downregulation of fbp1 .
promoter methylation of fbp1 can be used as a new biomarker for prognosis prediction of gastric cancer .
such an important epigenetic link between glycolysis and carcinogenesis partly explains the warburg effect .
objectives recently , it was revealed that carnosine inhibits growth of cells isolated from human malignant glioma .
in order to understand how this effect is mediated , experiments were performed that addressed a possible influence of carnosine on energy metabolism .
methods cells from the glioma line t98g and primary cultured cells from human malignant glioma were cultivated in the presence of carnosine and inhibitors of cellular energy metabolism .
as a specific inhibitor for anaerobic glycolysis , oxamate , and as an inhibitor for mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation , potassium cyanide , were used , and the influence on atp production was determined using cell-based assays .
results the experiments identified glycolysis as crucial for atp production in gliomas .
in addition , atp production by mitochondrial activity did not significantly contribute to atp production and carnosine was identified to be an inhibitor of the vital anaerobic glycolysis .
discussion carnosine might be considered as a potential drug for the treatment of malignant glioma or other tumors since it inhibits the glycolytic energy metabolism that is crucial for cancer cells and malignant gliomas as shown in the current study .
this is especially interesting since the dipeptide is a naturally occurring substance that should be well tolerated .
the aim of the present study was to evaluate immunomodulator ginsan , a polysaccharide extracted from panax ginseng , on carbon tetrachloride ( ccl(4))-induced liver injury .
balb/c mice were injected i.p. with ginsan 24 h prior to ccl(4) administration .
serum liver enzyme levels , histology , expression of antioxidant enzymes , and several cytokines/chemokines were subsequently evaluated .
ginsan treatment markedly suppressed the serum alanine aminotransferase ( alt ) and aspartate aminotransferase ( ast ) levels , and hepatic histological necrosis increased by ccl(4) treatment .
ginsan inhibited ccl(4) induced lipid peroxidation through the cytochrome p450 2e1 ( cyp2e1 ) downregulation .
the hepatoprotective effect of ginsan was attributed to induction of anti-oxidant protein contents , such as superoxide dismutase ( sod ) , catalase , and glutathione peroxidase ( gpx ) as well as restoration of the hepatic glutathione ( gsh ) concentration .
the marked increase of proinflammatory cytokines ( il-1beta , ifn-gamma ) and chemokines ( mcp-1 , mip-2beta , kc ) in ccl(4) treated mice was additionally attenuated by ginsan , thereby preventing leukocyte infiltration and local inflammation .
our results suggest that ginsan effectively prevent liver injury , mainly through downregulation of oxidative stress and inflammatory response .
a common metabolic change in cancer is the acquisition of glycolytic phenotypes .
increased expression of glycolytic enzymes is considered as one contributing factor .
the role of mitochondrial defects in acquisition of glycolytic phenotypes has been postulated but remains controversial .
here we show that functional defects in mitochondrial respiration could be induced by oncogenic h-ras(q61l) transformation , even though the mitochondrial contents or mass was not reduced in the transformed cells .
first , mitochondrial respiration , as measured by mitochondrial oxygen consumption , was suppressed in nih-3t3 cells transformed with h-ras(q61l) .
second , oligomycin or rotenone did not reduce the cellular atp levels in the h-ras(q61l) transformed cells , suggesting a diminished role of mitochondrial respiration in the cellular energy metabolism .
third , inhibition of glycolysis with iodoacetic acid reduced atp levels at a much faster rate in h-ras(q61l) transformed cells than in the vector control cells .
the reduction of cellular atp levels was reversed by exogenously added pyruvate in the vector control cells but not in h-ras(q61l) transformed cells .
finally when compared to the hras(q61l) transformed cells , the vector control cells had increased resistance toward glucose deprivation .
the increased resistance was dependent on mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation since rotenone or oligomycin abolished the increased survival of the vector control cells under glucose deprivation .
the results also suggest an inability of the h-ras(q61l) transformed cells to reactivate mitochondrial respiration under glucose deprivation .
taken together , the data suggest that mitochondrial respiration can be impaired during transformation of nih-3t3 cells by oncogeneic h-ras(q61l) .
inhibition of notch signaling is effective in inhibiting colon tumorigenesis , but targeting specific components of the pathway may provide more effective strategies .
here we show that the expression of jagged1 , a ligand for canonical notch signaling , was restricted to enteroendocrine cells or undetectable in the mucosa of the human small and large intestine , respectively .
in contrast , increased expression characterized half of human colon tumors , although not all tumors with elevated wnt signaling displayed elevated jagged1 .
increased jagged1 was also present in intestinal tumors of apc(1638n/+) and apc(min/+) mice , but to a higher level and more frequently in the former , and in 90% of mouse tumors notch signaling was elevated when jagged1 was elevated .
in the human ht29cl16e colonic carcinoma cell line , induction of goblet cell differentiation by contact inhibition of growth depended on the loss of jagged1-mediated notch activation , with signaling through notch1 and notch2 acting redundantly .
therefore , targeting of jagged1 could be effective in downregulating notch signaling in a subset of tumors , but may avoid the limiting gastrointestinal toxicity caused by pharmacological inhibition of notch signaling .
reactive oxygen species ( ros ) such as hydrogen peroxide ( h(2)o(2) ) , o(*-)(2) and oh(*) participate in the pathogenesis of ischemia/reperfusion injury , inflammation and atherosclerosis .
our previous studies have suggested that increased angiotensin ii ( ang ii)-forming chymase may be involved in the development of atherosclerosis .
however , the regulatory mechanism of chymase expression has not yet been clarified .
in this study , we tested whether oxidative stress upregulates mouse mast cell proteinase chymase , mouse mast cell proteinase ( mmcp)-5 or mmcp-4 .
we also examined the expression and activity of these proteins after treatment .
cultured mouse mastocytoma cells ( mmc ) displaying chymase-dependent ang ii-forming activity were treated with h(2)o(2) and several aminothiols with or without anti-oxidants .
the levels of mmcp-5 and mmcp-4 expression were determined by quantitative rt-pcr ; the level of chymase-dependent ang ii-forming activity was measured by high performance liquid chromatography using ang i as a substrate .
treatment of mmc with homocysteine ( 0.1-3 mmol l(-1) ) significantly increased mmcp-5 and mmcp-4 expression , as well as ang ii-forming activity .
these effects were significantly inhibited by the addition of catalase and further suppressed by the combination of catalase and superoxide dismutase .
incubation with hydrogen peroxide alone caused a significant increase in ang ii-forming activity , which was completely suppressed by co-treatment with catalase .
furthermore , mmcp-5 and mmcp-4 expression levels were drastically suppressed and chymase induction by homocysteine was diminished under the gata-inhibited condition .
homocysteine increased mast cell chymase expression and activity through the mechanism of oxidative stress .
our results suggest that there is a biochemical link between oxidative stress and the local ang ii-forming system .
energy deregulation and abnormalities of tumor cell metabolism are critical issues in understanding cancer .
hereditary leiomyomatosis renal cell carcinoma ( hlrcc ) is an aggressive form of rcc characterized by germline mutation of the krebs cycle enzyme fumarate hydratase ( fh ) , and one known to be highly metastatic and unusually lethal .
there is considerable utility in establishing preclinical cell and xenograft models for study of disorders of energy metabolism , as well as in development of new therapeutic approaches targeting of tricarboxylic acid ( tca ) cycle enzyme-deficient human cancers .
here we describe a new immortalized cell line , uok 262 , derived from a patient having aggressive hlrcc-associated recurring kidney cancer .
we investigated gene expression , chromosome profiles , efflux bioenergetic analysis , mitochondrial ultrastructure , fh catabolic activity , invasiveness , and optimal glucose requirements for in vitro growth .
uok 262 cells have an isochromosome 1q recurring chromosome abnormality , i(1)(q10) , and exhibit compromised oxidative phosphorylation and in vitro dependence on anaerobic glycolysis consistent with the clinical manifestation of hlrcc .
the cells also display glucose-dependent growth , an elevated rate of lactate efflux , and overexpression of the glucose transporter glut1 and of lactate dehydrogenase a ( ldha ) .
mutant fh protein was present primarily in edematous mitochondria , but with catalytic activity nearly undetectable .
uok 262 xenografts retain the characteristics of hlrcc histopathology .
our findings indicate that the severe compromise of oxidative phosphorylation and rapid glycolytic flux in uok 262 are an essential feature of this tca cycle enzyme-deficient form of kidney cancer .
this tumor model is the embodiment of the warburg effect .
uok 262 provides a unique in vitro and in vivo preclinical model for studying the bioenergetics of the warburg effect in human cancer .
depleted uranium ( du ) is commonly used in military armor and munitions , and thus , exposure of soldiers and noncombatants is frequent and widespread .
previous studies have shown that du has both chemical and radiological toxicity and that the primary route of exposure of du to humans is through inhalation and ingestion .
however , there is limited research information on the potential carcinogenicity of du in human bronchial cells .
accordingly , we determined the neoplastic transforming ability of particulate du to human bronchial epithelial cells ( bep2d ) .
we observed the loss of contact inhibition and anchorage independent growth in cells exposed to du after 24 h .
we also characterized these du-induced transformed cell lines and found that 40% of the cell lines exhibit alterations in plating efficiency and no significant changes in the cytotoxic response to du .
cytogenetic analyses showed that 53% of the du-transformed cell lines possess a hypodiploid phenotype .
these data indicate that human bronchial cells are transformed by du and exhibit significant chromosome instability consistent with a neoplastic phenotype .
a fully intact immune system would be expected to hinder the efficacy of oncolytic virotherapy by inhibiting viral replication .
simultaneously , however , it may also enhance antitumor therapy through initiation of proinflammatory , antiviral cytokine responses at the tumor site .
the aim of this study was to investigate the role of a fully intact immune system on the antitumor efficacy of an oncolytic virus .
in this respect , injection of oncolytic vesicular stomatitis virus ( vsv ) into subcutaneous b16ova melanomas in c57bl/6 mice leads to tumor regression , but it is not associated with viral replicative burst in the tumor .
in contrast , intratumoral delivery of vsv induces an acute proinflammatory reaction , which quickly resolves concomitantly with virus clearance .
consistent with the hypothesis that therapy may not be dependent on the ability of vsv to undergo progressive rounds of replication , a single-cycle vsv is equally effective as a fully replication-competent vsv , whereas inactivated viruses do not generate therapy .
even though therapy is dependent on host cd8+ and natural killer cells , these effects are not associated with interferon-gamma-dependent responses against either the virus or tumor .
there is , however , a strong correlation between viral gene expression , induction of proinflammatory reaction in the tumor and in vivo therapy .
overall , our results suggest that acute innate antiviral immune response , which rapidly clears vsv from b16ova tumors , is associated with the therapy observed in this model .
therefore , the antiviral immune response to an oncolytic virus mediates an intricate balance between safety , restriction of oncolysis and , potentially , significant immune-mediated antitumor therapy .
the high glucose consumption of tumor cells even in an oxygen-rich environment , referred to as the warburg effect , has been noted as a nearly universal biochemical characteristic of cancer cells .
targeting the glycolysis pathway has been explored as an anti-cancer therapeutic strategy to eradicate cancer based on this fundamental biochemical property of cancer cells .
oncoproteins such as akt and c-myc regulate cell metabolism .
accumulating studies have uncovered various molecular mechanisms by which oncoproteins affect cellular metabolism , raising a concern as to whether targeting glycolysis will be equally effective in treating cancers arising from different oncogenic activities .
here , we established a dual-regulatable fl5.12 pre-b cell line in which myristoylated akt is expressed under the control of doxycycline , and c-myc , fused to the hormone-binding domain of the human estrogen receptor , is activated by 4-hydroxytamoxifen .
using this system , we directly compared the effect of these oncoproteins on cell metabolism in an isogenic background .
activation of either akt or c-myc leads to the warburg effect as indicated by increased cellular glucose uptake , glycolysis , and lactate generation .
when cells are treated with glycolysis inhibitors , akt sensitizes cells to apoptosis , whereas c-myc does not .
in contrast , c-myc but not akt sensitizes cells to the inhibition of mitochondrial function .
this is correlated with enhanced mitochondrial activities in c-myc cells .
hence , although both akt and c-myc promote aerobic glycolysis , they differentially affect mitochondrial functions and render cells susceptible to the perturbation of cellular metabolic programs .
il-15 is a pluripotent antiapoptotic cytokine that signals to cells of both the innate and adaptive immune system and is regarded as a highly promising immunomodulatory agent in cancer therapy .
sepsis is a lethal condition in which apoptosis-induced depletion of immune cells and subsequent immunosuppression are thought to contribute to morbidity and mortality .
this study tested the ability of il-15 to block apoptosis , prevent immunosuppression , and improve survival in sepsis .
mice were made septic using cecal ligation and puncture or pseudomonas aeruginosa pneumonia .
the experiments comprised a 2 x 2 full factorial design with surgical sepsis versus sham and il-15 versus vehicle .
in addition to survival studies , splenic cellularity , canonical markers of activation and proliferation , intracellular pro- and antiapoptotic bcl-2 family protein expression , and markers of immune cell apoptosis were evaluated by flow cytometry .
cytokine production was examined both in plasma of treated mice and splenocytes that were stimulated ex vivo .
il-15 blocked sepsis-induced apoptosis of nk cells , dendritic cells , and cd8 t cells .
il-15 also decreased sepsis-induced gut epithelial apoptosis .
il-15 therapy increased the abundance of antiapoptotic bcl-2 while decreasing proapoptotic bim and puma .
il-15 increased both circulating ifn-gamma , as well as the percentage of nk cells that produced ifn-gamma .
finally , il-15 increased survival in both cecal ligation and puncture and p. aeruginosa pneumonia .
in conclusion , il-15 prevents two immunopathologic hallmarks of sepsis , namely , apoptosis and immunosuppression , and improves survival in two different models of sepsis .
il-15 represents a potentially novel therapy of this highly lethal disorder .
high concentrations of lactic acid ( la ) are found under various pathophysiological conditions and are accompanied by an acidification of the environment .
to study the impact of la on tnf secretion , human lps-stimulated monocytes were cultured with or without la or the corresponding ph control .
tnf secretion was significantly suppressed by low concentrations of la ( &lt ; or = 10 mm ) , whereas only strong acidification had a similar effect .
this result was confirmed in a coculture model of human monocytes with multicellular tumor spheroids .
blocking synthesis of tumor-derived lactate by oxamic acid , an inhibitor of lactate dehydrogenase , reversed the suppression of tnf secretion in this coculture model .
we then investigated possible mechanisms underlying the suppression .
uptake of [ 3-(13)c]lactate by monocytes was shown by hyphenated mass spectrometry .
as lactate might interfere with glycolysis , the glycolytic flux of monocytes was determined .
we added [ 1,2-(13)c(2)]glucose to the culture medium and measured glucose uptake and conversion into [ 2,3-(13)c(2)]lactate .
activation of monocytes increased the glycolytic flux and the secretion of lactate , whereas oxygen consumption was decreased .
addition of unlabeled la resulted in a highly significant decrease in [ 2,3-(13)c(2)]lactate secretion , whereas a mere corresponding decrease in ph exerted a less pronounced effect .
both treatments increased intracellular [ 2,3-(13)c(2)]lactate levels .
blocking of glycolysis by 2-deoxyglucose strongly inhibited tnf secretion , whereas suppression of oxidative phosphorylation by rotenone had little effect .
these results support the hypothesis that tnf secretion by human monocytes depends on glycolysis and suggest that la and acidification may be involved in the suppression of tnf secretion in the tumor environment .
background &amp ; aims hepatocytes are considered an exception of the paradigmatic inverse correlation between cell proliferation and terminal differentiation .
in fact , hepatic vital functions are guaranteed by proliferating parenchymal cells during liver regeneration .
however , a fine molecular characterization of the relationship between proliferation and differentiation in hepatocytes has been hampered by the lack of reliable in vivo or in vitro models .
methods the hepatocyte terminal differentiation program was characterized in the immortalized , untransformed and differentiated hepatocytic cell line mmh , using several techniques .
particularly , two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis combined to tandem mass spectrometry proteomic approach was used .
cell cycle and cell adhesion properties of mmh have been altered using either myc-overexpression and mek1/2 inhibition or a constitutive active beta-catenin mutant , respectively .
results the hepatocyte terminal differentiation program is stimulated by the exit from the cell cycle induced by cell-cell contact .
comparative proteomic analysis of proliferating versus quiescent hepatocytes validated the importance of contact inhibition , identifying 68 differently expressed gene products , representing 49 unique proteins .
notably , enzymes involved in important liver functions such as detoxification processes , lipid metabolism , iron and vitamin a storage and secretion , anti-inflammatory response and exocytosis were found significantly up-regulated in quiescent hepatocytes .
finally , we found that : ( i ) cell cycle arrest induced by mek1/2 inhibition is not sufficient to induce hepatic product expression ; ( ii ) constitutive activation of beta-catenin counteracts the contact inhibition-induced terminal differentiation .
conclusion the hepatocyte terminal differentiation program requires a quiescent state maintained by cell-cell contact through the e-cadherin/beta-catenin pathway , rather than the inhibition of proliferation .
candida albicans infections are very frequent in cancer patients , whose immune system is often compromised , but whether this fungal pathogen affects cancer progression is unknown .
c. albicans infection involves endogenous production of inflammatory cytokines such as tumour necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) and interleukin-18 ( il-18 ) .
increased levels of these cytokines have already been correlated with metastasis of most common cancer types .
in this study , a well-established model of il-18-dependent hepatic melanoma metastasis was used to study whether c. albicans can alter the ability of murine b16 melanoma ( b16m ) cells to colonize the liver .
first , we determined the ability of intrasplenically ( is ) injected b16m cells to metastasize into the liver of mice challenged with 5 x 10(4) c. albicans cells by three different routes ( intravenous , iv ; intrasplenic , is ; or intraperitoneal , ip ) 12 h prior to injection of b16m cells .
we demonstrated that c. albicans significantly increased metastasis of b16m cells with all three fungal injection routes .
pro-metastatic effects occurred when hepatic colonization with b16m cells place after the peak of tnf-alpha and il-18 levels had been reached in the hepatic blood of fungal challenged mice .
in a second set of experiments , mice were fungal challenged 4 days after injection of b16m cells .
in these mice , c. albicans also potentiated the growth of established micro-metastases .
significantly , the fungal challenge had pro-metastatic effects without the c. albicans being able to reach the liver , suggesting that soluble factors can promote metastasis in remote sites .
mouse treatment with antifungal ketoconazol abrogated hepatic tnf-alpha stimulation by c. albicans and prevented the enhancement of hepatic metastasis in fungal challenged-mice .
therefore , the pro-inflammatory microenvironment generated by the host's systemic response to c. albicans stimulates circulating cancer cells to metastasize in the liver .
mutations in the tumor suppressor tuberin ( tsc2 ) are a common factor in the development of lymphangioleiomyomatosis ( lam ) .
lam is a cystic lung disease that is characterized by the infiltration of smooth muscle-like cells into the pulmonary parenchyma .
the mechanism by which the loss of tuberin promotes the development of lam has yet to be elucidated , although several lines of evidence suggest it is due to the metastasis of tuberin-deficient cells .
here we show that tuberin-null cells become nonadherent and invasive .
these nonadherent cells express cleaved forms of -catenin .
in reporter assays , the -catenin products are transcriptionally active and promote mmp7 expression .
invasion by the tuberin-null cells is mediated by mmp7 .
examination of lam tissues shows the expression of cleaved -catenin products and mmp7 consistent with a model that tuberin-deficient cells acquire invasive properties through a -catenin-dependent mechanism , which may underlie the development of lam .
the present study was designed to investigate the protective efficacy of eugenol against skin cancer and probe into the mechanistic aspects .
skin tumors were initiated by applying 160 nmol dmba and promoted by twice weekly applications of 8.5 nmol tpa for 28 wk .
all mice developed tumors by 13 wk of promotion .
however , in mice pretreated with 30 microl eugenol , no tumors were detected until 8 wk ( following anti-initiation protocol ) and until 14 wk ( following antipromotion protocol ) of tumor promotion .
pcna and tunel immunohistochemistry of tumors revealed eugenol to ameliorate cell proliferation and elevate apoptosis respectively .
the effect of eugenol was assessed on specific stages of carcinogenesis .
initiation with dmba led to a significant upregulation of p53 expression with a concomitant increase in p21(waf1) levels in epidermal cells indicating induction of damage to the dna .
however , pretreatment with eugenol led to overexpression of these genes , which probably helped stimulate apoptosis of the initiated cells .
to ascertain the molecular mechanisms implicated in the antitumor promoting activity of eugenol , its effect was investigated on markers of tumor promotion and inflammation : odc activity and inos and cox-2 expression , and on levels of proinflammatory cytokines ( il-6 , tnf-alpha , and pge(2) ) .
eugenol markedly inhibited all .
eugenol also inhibited the upstream signaling molecule : nf-kappab , which regulates the expression of these genes .
tpa-induced depletion of cutaneous gsh and antioxidant enzymes armory was also precluded by eugenol .
from these results , it could be concluded that eugenol markedly protects against chemically induced skin cancer and acts possibly by virtue of its antiproliferative , anti-inflammatory , and antioxidant activities .
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( pahs ) are widely distributed immunotoxic and carcinogenic environmental contaminants , known to affect macrophages .
in order to identify their molecular targets in such cells , we have analyzed gene expression profile of primary human macrophages treated by the prototypical pah benzo(a)pyrene ( bap ) , using pangenomic oligonucleotides microarrays .
exposure of macrophages to bap for 8 and 24 h resulted in 96 and 1100 genes , differentially expressed by at least a twofold change factor , respectively .
some of these targets , including the chemokine receptor cxcr5 , the g protein-coupled receptor 35 ( gpr35 ) , and the ras regulator rasal1 , have not been previously shown to be affected by pahs , in contrast to others , such as interleukin-1beta and the aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( ahr ) repressor .
these bap-mediated gene regulations were fully validated by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction assays for some selected genes .
their bioinformatic analysis indicated that biological functions linked to immunity , inflammation , and cell death were among the most affected by bap in human macrophages and that the ahr and p53 signaling pathways were the most significant canonical pathways activated by the pah .
ahr and p53 implications were moreover fully confirmed by the prevention of bap-related upregulation of some selected target genes by ahr silencing or the use of pifithrin-alpha , an inhibitor of pah bioactivation-related dna damage/p53 pathways .
overall , these data , through identifying genes and signaling pathways targeted by pahs in human macrophages , may contribute to better understand the molecular basis of the immunotoxicity of these environmental contaminants .
mitochondrial biogenesis , which depends on nuclear as well as mitochondrial genes , occurs in response to increased cellular atp demand .
the nuclear transcriptional factors , estrogen-related receptor alpha ( erralpha ) and nuclear respiratory factors 1 and 2 , are associated with the coordination of the transcriptional machinery governing mitochondrial biogenesis , whereas coactivators of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 ( pgc-1 ) family serve as mediators between the environment and this machinery .
in the context of proliferating cells , pgc-1-related coactivator ( prc ) is a member of the pgc-1 family , which is known to act in partnership with nuclear respiratory factors , but no functional interference between prc and erralpha has been described so far .
we explored three thyroid cell lines , ftc-133 , xtc.uc1 and ro 82 w-1 , each characterized by a different mitochondrial content , and studied their behavior towards prc and erralpha in terms of respiratory efficiency .
overexpression of prc and erralpha led to increased respiratory chain capacity and mitochondrial mass .
the inhibition of erralpha decreased cell growth and respiratory chain capacity in all three cell lines .
however , the inhibition of prc and erralpha produced a greater effect in the oxidative cell model , decreasing the mitochondrial mass and the phosphorylating respiration , whereas the nonphosphorylating respiration remained unchanged .
we therefore hypothesize that the erralpha-prc complex plays a role in arresting the cell cycle through the regulation of oxidative phosphorylation in oxidative cells , and through some other pathway in glycolytic cells .
rad51 is a key enzyme of homologous recombination and repair of dna double-strand breaks .
rad51 mrna expression levels are significantly increased in laser-microdissected mammary simple carcinomas and their lymph node metastases when compared to adenomas or nonneoplastic mammary gland of the same dog .
here , rad51 protein expression was analyzed by immunohistochemistry in paraffin-embedded mammary carcinomas and their lymph node metastases of 40 dogs , adenomas of 48 dogs , and nonneoplastic mammary gland of 88 dogs .
number of cells with nuclear rad51 expression was significantly ( p &lt ; or = .05 ) increased in carcinomas when compared to adenomas and metastases .
in contrast , no significant differences in the number of rad51-expressing cells were detected when metastases were compared with adenomas and nonneoplastic gland .
rad51 expression in carcinomas was correlated with expression in metastases but not with histologic grade .
in conclusion , the increased number of rad51-expressing cells in carcinomas might indicate genomic instability in these cells .
nevertheless , the increased rad51 mrna expression in metastases could not be confirmed by immunohistochemistry .
cell proliferation is known to be accompanied by activation of glycolysis .
we have recently discovered that the glycolysis-promoting enzyme 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase , isoform 3 ( pfkfb3 ) , is degraded by the e3 ubiquitin ligase apc/c-cdh1 , which also degrades cell-cycle proteins .
we now show in two different cell types ( neoplastic and nonneoplastic ) that both proliferation and aerobic glycolysis are prevented by overexpression of cdh1 and enhanced by its silencing .
furthermore , we have coexpressed cdh1 with pfkfb3--either wild-type or a mutant form resistant to ubiquitylation by apc/c-cdh1--or with the glycolytic enzyme 6-phosphofructo-1-kinase and demonstrated that whereas glycolysis is essential for cell proliferation , its initiation in the presence of active cdh1 does not result in proliferation .
our experiments indicate that the proliferative response , regardless of whether it occurs in normal or neoplastic cells , is dependent on a decrease in the activity of apc/c-cdh1 , which activates both proliferation and glycolysis .
these observations have implications for cell proliferation , neoplastic transformation , and the prevention and treatment of cancer .
the contribution that mitochondrial bioenergetics could have in cancer development is debated .
here , we have generated hct116-derived colocarcinoma cell lines expressing different levels of the beta catalytic subunit of the mitochondrial h+-adenosine triphosphate synthase to assess the contribution of mitochondrial bioenergetics in colon cancer progression .
the generated cells exhibit large ultrastructural , transcriptomic , proteomic and functional differences in their mitochondria and in their in vivo tumor forming capacity .
we show that the activity of oxidative phosphorylation defines the rate of glucose utilization by aerobic glycolysis .
the aggressive cellular phenotype , which is highly glycolytic , is bound to the deregulated expression of genes involved in metabolic processes , the regulation of the cell cycle , apoptosis , angiogenesis and cell adhesion .
remarkably , the molecular and ultrastructural analysis of the tumors derived from the three hct116 cell lines under study highlight that tumor promotion inevitably requires the selection of cancer cells with a repressed biogenesis and functional activity of mitochondria , i.e. the highly glycolytic phenotype is selected for tumor development .
the tumor forming potential of the cells is a non-genetically acquired condition that provides the cancer cell with a cell-death resistant phenotype .
an abrogated mitochondrial respiration contributes to a diminished potential for reactive oxygen species signaling in response to 5-fluorouracil treatment .
treatment of cancer cells with dichloroacetate partially restores the functional differentiation of mitochondria and promotes tumor regression , emphasizing the reversible nature of the metabolic trait of cancer .
diets rich in fruits and vegetables are associated with lower risk of cancer which may be conferred in part by the antioxidant properties of these foods .
however , antioxidant supplementation or increased consumption of antioxidant-rich foods has been reported to have inconsistent effects on dna damage .
the present work ( the dart study ) investigated the extent of inter-individual variation in dna damage , the capacity for base excision repair ( ber ) and the responses of both variables to supplementation with an antioxidant supplement for 6 weeks .
there was a wide inter-individual variation in endogenous lymphocyte dna strand breaks ( 8-fold variation ) , in damage after a challenge with h2o2 ( 16-fold variation ) and in dna repair ( 41-fold variation ) measured using the comet assay .
when stratified into tertiles according to the pre-supplementation level of endogenous dna damage , there was a statistically significant decrease in dna damage after supplementation in the tertile with the highest pre-supplementation level of damage .
there was no effect of supplementation on ber .
endogenous dna damage level before supplementation was significantly different ( p = 0.037 ) between the three genotypes for the val16ala single nucleotide polymorphism in manganese superoxide dismutase ( rs4880 ) with individuals homozygous/wild type showing less damage than those carrying the alanine variant .
purpose genomic complexity is present in approximately 15% to 30% of all chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) and has emerged as a strong independent predictor of rapid disease progression and short remission duration in cll .
we conducted this study to advance our understanding of the causes of genomic complexity in cll .
experimental design we have obtained quantitative measurements of radiation-induced apoptosis and radiation-induced atm autophosphorylation in purified cll cells from 158 and 140 patients , respectively , and have used multivariate analysis to identify independent contributions of various biological variables on genomic complexity in cll .
results here , we identify a strong independent effect of radiation resistance on elevated genomic complexity in cll and describe radiation resistance as a predictor for shortened cll survival .
furthermore , using multivariate analysis , we identify del17p/p53 aberrations , del11q , del13q14 type ii ( invariably resulting in rb loss ) , and cd38 expression as independent predictors of genomic complexity in cll , with aberrant p53 as a predictor of approximately 50% of genomic complexity in cll .
focusing on del11q , we determined that normalized atm activity was a modest predictor of genomic complexity but was not independent of del11q .
through single nucleotide polymorphism array-based fine mapping of del11q , we identified frequent monoallelic loss of mre11 and h2afx in addition to atm , indicative of compound del11q-resident gene defects in the dna double-strand break response .
conclusions our quantitative analysis links multiple molecular defects , including for the first time del11q and large 13q14 deletions ( type ii ) , to elevated genomic complexity in cll , thereby suggesting mechanisms for the observed clinical aggressiveness of cll in patients with unstable genomes .
acute endothelial cell apoptosis and microvascular compromise couple gastrointestinal tract irradiation to reproductive death of intestinal crypt stem cell clonogens ( sccs ) following high-dose radiation .
genetic or pharmacologic inhibition of endothelial apoptosis prevents intestinal damage , but as the radiation dose is escalated , sccs become directly susceptible to an alternate cell death mechanism , mediated via ceramide synthase ( cs)-stimulated de novo synthesis of the proapoptotic sphingolipid ceramide , and p53-independent apoptosis of crypt sccs .
we previously reported that ataxia-telangiectasia mutated deficiency resets the primary radiation lethal pathway , allowing cs-mediated apoptosis at the low-dose range of radiation .
the mechanism for this event , termed target reordering , remains unknown .
here , we show that inactivation of dna damage repair pathways signals cs-mediated apoptosis in crypt sccs , presumably via persistent unrepaired dna double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) .
genetic loss of function of sensors and transducers of dna dsb repair confers the cs-mediated lethal pathway in intestines of sv129/b6mre11(atld1/atld1) and c57bl/6(prkdc/scid) ( severe combined immunodeficient ) mice exposed to low-dose radiation .
in contrast , cs-mediated scc lethality was mitigated in irradiated gain-of-function rad50(s/s) mice , and epistasis studies order rad50 upstream of mre11 .
these studies suggest unrepaired dna dsbs as causative in target reordering in intestinal sccs .
as such , we provide an in vivo model of dna damage repair that is standardized , can be exploited to understand allele-specific regulation in intact tissue , and is pharmacologically tractable .
ceacam1 , cea/ceacam5 , and ceacam6 are cell adhesion molecules ( cams ) of the carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) family that have been shown to be deregulated in lung cancer and in up to 50% of all human cancers .
however , little is known about the functional impact of these molecules on undifferentiated cell growth and tumor progression .
here we demonstrate that cell surface expression of ceacam1 on confluent a549 human lung adenocarcinoma cells plays a critical role in differentiated , contact-inhibited cell growth .
interestingly , ceacam1-l , but not ceacam1-s , negatively regulates proliferation via its itim domain , while in proliferating cells no ceacam expression is detectable .
furthermore , we show for the first time that ceacam6 acts as an inducer of cellular proliferation in a549 cells , likely by interfering with the contact-inhibiting signal triggered by ceacam1-4l , leading to undifferentiated anchorage-independent cell growth .
we also found that a549 cells expressed significant amounts of non-membrane anchored variants of ceacam5 and ceacam6 , representing a putative source for the increased ceacam5/6 serum levels frequently found in lung cancer patients .
taken together , our data suggest that post-confluent contact inhibition is established and maintained by ceacam1-4l , but disturbances of ceacam1 signalling by ceacam1-4s and other ceacams lead to undifferentiated cell growth and malignant transformation .
background folate ( vitamin b9 ) is essential for cellular proliferation as it is involved in the biosynthesis of deoxythymidine monophosphate ( dtmp ) and s-adenosylmethionine ( adomet ) .
the link between folate depletion and the genesis and progression of cancers of epithelial origin is of high clinical relevance , but still unclear .
we recently demonstrated that sensitivity to low folate availability is affected by the rate of polyamine biosynthesis , which is prominent in prostate cells .
we , therefore , hypothesized that prostate cells might be highly susceptible to genetic , epigenetic and phenotypic changes consequent to folate restriction .
results we studied the consequences of long-term , mild folate depletion in a model comprised of three syngenic cell lines derived from the transgenic adenoma of the mouse prostate ( tramp ) model , recapitulating different stages of prostate cancer ; benign , transformed and metastatic .
high-performance liquid chromatography analysis demonstrated that mild folate depletion ( 100 nm ) sufficed to induce imbalance in both the nucleotide and adomet pools in all prostate cell lines .
random oligonucleotide-primed synthesis ( rops ) revealed a significant increase in uracil misincorporation and dna single strand breaks , while spectral karyotype analysis ( sky ) identified five novel chromosomal rearrangements in cells grown with mild folate depletion .
using global approaches , we identified an increase in cpg island and histone methylation upon folate depletion despite unchanged levels of total 5-methylcytosine , indicating a broad effect of folate depletion on epigenetic regulation .
these genomic changes coincided with phenotype changes in the prostate cells including increased anchorage-independent growth and reduced sensitivity to folate depletion .
conclusions this study demonstrates that prostate cells are highly susceptible to genetic and epigenetic changes consequent to mild folate depletion as compared to cells grown with supraphysiological amounts of folate ( 2 microm ) routinely used in tissue culture .
in addition , we elucidate for the first time the contribution of these aspects to consequent phenotype changes in epithelial cells .
these results provide a strong rationale for studying the effects of folate manipulation on the prostate in vivo , where cells might be more sensitive to changes in folate status resulting from folate supplementation or antifolate therapeutic approaches .
purpose radiation therapy appears to kill cells mainly by inducing dna double-strand breaks .
we investigated whether the dna repair gene expression status might influence the risk of locoregional recurrence ( lrr ) in breast cancer patients .
methods and materials we used a quantitative reverse transcriptase pcr-based approach to measure messenger rna levels of 20 selected dna repair genes in tumor samples from 97 breast cancer patients enrolled in a phase iii trial ( centre ren huguenin cohort ) .
normalized mrna levels were tested for an association with lrr-free survival ( lrr-fs ) and overall survival ( os ) .
the findings were validated in comparison with those of an independent cohort ( netherlands cancer institute ( nki ) cohort ) .
multivariate analysis encompassing known prognostic factors was used to assess the association between dna repair gene expression and patient outcome .
results rad51 was the only gene associated with lrr in both cohorts .
with a median follow-up of 126 months in the crh cohort , the 5-year lrr-fs and os rates were 100% and 95% in the 61 patients with low rad51 expression , compared with 70% and 69% in the 36 patients with high rad51 expression , respectively ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
rad51 overexpression was associated with a higher risk of lrr ( hazard ratio [ hr ] , 12.83 ; 95% confidence interval [ ci ] , 3.6-45.6 ) and death ( hr , 4.10 ; 95% ci , 1.7-9.7 ) .
rad51 overexpression was also significantly associated with shorter lrr-fs and os in the nki cohort .
conclusions overexpression of rad51 , a key component of the homologous dna repair pathway , is associated with poor breast cancer outcome .
this finding warrants prospective studies of rad51 as a prognosticator and therapeutic target .
atm(tel1) and atr(rad3) checkpoint kinases phosphorylate the c-terminus of histone h2ax ( h2a in yeasts ) in chromatin flanking dna damage , establishing a recruitment platform for checkpoint and repair proteins .
phospho-h2a/x ( gammah2a/x)-binding proteins at double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) have been characterized , but those required for replication stress responses are unknown .
here , we present genetic , biochemical , small angle x-ray scattering ( saxs ) , and x-ray structural studies of the schizosaccharomyces pombe brc1 , a 6-brct-domain protein that is structurally related to saccharomyces cerevisiae rtt107 and mammalian ptip .
brc1 binds gammah2a to form spontaneous and dna damage-induced nuclear foci .
spontaneous brc1 foci colocalize with ribosomal dna repeats , a region prone to fork pausing and genomic instability , whereas dna damage-induced brc1 foci colocalize with dsb response factors. gammah2a binding is critical for brc1 function .
the 1.45 a resolution crystal structure of brc1-gammah2a complex shows how variable brct insertion loops sculpt tandem-brct phosphoprotein-binding pockets to facilitate unique phosphoprotein-interaction specificities , and unveils an acidic dna-mimicking brc1 surface .
from these results , brc1 docking to gammah2a emerges as a critical chromatin-specific response to replication-associated dna damage .
epidemiological studies exploring the connection between hypertension and cancer incidence find a higher cancer mortality in hypertensive patients , particularly elevated in hypertension associated with a stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system .
primary aldosteronism , with plasma aldosterone levels between 0.5 and 1 nm ( 18-36 ng/dl ) and local aldosterone levels up to 500 nm ( 18,000 ng/dl ) , is now recognised as a more common cause for hypertension .
we recently found angiotensin ii to be genotoxic due to its induction of oxidative stress .
since aldosterone in higher concentrations also has oxidative effects , its potential genotoxic action in pig llc-pk1 cells with properties of proximal tubules was analysed .
dna damage was evaluated by two test systems : the comet assay , and the micronucleus frequency test .
the results showed that aldosterone concentrations starting from 10 nm ( 360 ng/dl ) caused a significant increase of dna damage monitored with the comet assay in llc-pk1 , while there was no change in cell vitality and proliferation .
the micronucleus frequency test revealed that 10 nm aldosterone also leads to the formation of micronuclei .
furthermore , the formation of superoxide radicals in the cells by this aldosterone concentration could be detected with the superoxide-specific stain dihydroethidium .
further evidence for oxidative stress-induced dna damage was its reversibility by the antioxidants tempol and catalase .
addition of the steroidal mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist spironolactone or the novel selective nonsteroidal antagonist ( r)-br-4628 reduced the dna damage and the amount of superoxide radicals indicating a receptor-dependent process .
the purpose of this study was to combine a three-dimensional nmr-compatible bioreactor with hyperpolarized ( 13)c nmr spectroscopy in order to probe cellular metabolism in real time .
jm1 ( immortalized rat hepatoma ) cells were cultured in a three-dimensional nmr-compatible fluidized bioreactor .
( 31)p spectra were acquired before and after each injection of hyperpolarized [ 1-(13)c ] pyruvate and subsequent ( 13)c spectroscopy at 11.7 t .
( 1)h and two-dimensional ( 1)h-(1)h-total correlation spectroscopy spectra were acquired from extracts of cells grown in uniformly labeled ( 13)c-glucose , on a 16.4 t , to determine ( 13)c fractional enrichment and distribution of ( 13)c label .
jm1 cells were found to have a high rate of aerobic glycolysis in both two-dimensional culture and in the bioreactor , with 85% of the ( 13)c label from uniformly labeled ( 13)c-glucose being present as either lactate or alanine after 23 h .
flux measurements of pyruvate through lactate dehydrogenase and alanine aminotransferase in the bioreactor system were 12.18 +/- 0.49 nmols/sec/10(8) cells and 2.39 +/- 0.30 nmols/sec/10(8) cells , respectively , were reproducible in the same bioreactor , and were not significantly different over the course of 2 days .
although this preliminary study involved immortalized cells , this combination of technologies can be extended to the real-time metabolic exploration of primary benign and cancerous cells and tissues prior to and after therapy .
multivitamin preparation ( mvp ) is part of total parenteral nutrition given to premature infants .
photoactivated mvp carries an important load in peroxides , but their cellular effects have not yet been determined .
we hypothesized that these peroxides may elicit a dna-damage response .
we found that photoactivation of mvp and the resulting peroxide production were time-dependent and required the simultaneous presence of ascorbic acid and riboflavin .
cells treated with photoactivated mvp showed strongly stimulated poly(adp-ribosyl)ation , an early dna-damage response in mammals .
poly(adp-ribosyl)ation stimulation was dependent on the presence of ascorbic acid and riboflavin in the photoactivated mvp .
it did not occur in the presence of a specific parp inhibitor nor in mouse fibroblasts deficient in parp-1 .
photoactivated mvp was able to induce single- and double-strand breaks in dna , with a predominance of single-stand breaks .
the presence of double-strand breaks was further confirmed using a 53pb1 focus analysis .
finally , photoactivated mvp was shown to be toxic to human cells and induced caspase-independent cell death .
these results suggest that photoactivated mvp carries an important toxic load able to damage dna and induce cell death .
this study also emphasizes the importance of protecting mvp solution from light before use in preterm infants .
it is thought that high linear energy transfer ( let ) radiation induces more complex dna damage than low-let particles , specifically clustered dna damage that causes cells to repair dna double strand breaks ( dsb ) more slowly and leads to severe biological consequences .
the present study aimed to investigate the role of exogenously added glutathione ( gsh ) on ( 12)c-beam ( 287kev/mum ) and ( 7)li-beam ( 60kev/mum ) induced chromosome aberration ( ca ) formation , particularly on exchange aberration formation .
in order to characterize the role of gsh in the joining of dna dsbs , we induced dna lesions with bleomycin ( blem ) in conjunction with either high- or low-let radiation ( x-rays ) since the chemistry of the free dna ends created by blem and x-rays is similar .
cho cells were exposed to reduced gsh at a concentration of 2mm for 3h before radiation .
treatment with blem ( 20mug/ml ) was carried out for 2h before the cells were exposed to radiation .
our results show that the frequency of chromosomal aberration increases with increased let .
heavy ion exposed cells show a higher frequency of ca over time than do x-irradiated cells .
an analysis of the first post-irradiation mitosis of exposed cho cells shows that high-let radiation induces more breaks than exchange-type aberrations and exogenous gsh has no influence on high-let radiation-induced dna damage .
the dna lesions induced by low-let radiation interact relatively strongly with blem-induced lesions whereas interaction between blem and high-let radiations was poor .
this could be attributed to differences in repair kinetics and qualitative differences in the dna lesions induced by blem and high-let radiation .
recently , the use of gold nanoparticles as potential tumor selective radiosensitizers has been proposed as a breakthrough in radiotherapy .
experiments in living cells and in vivo have demonstrated the efficiency of the metal nanoparticles when combined with low energy x-ray radiations ( below conventional 1 mev linac radiation ) .
further studies on dna have been performed in order to better understand the fundamental processes of sensitization and to further improve the method .
in this work , we propose a new strategy based on the combination of platinum nanoparticles with irradiation by fast ions effectively used in hadron therapy .
it is observed in particular that nanoparticles enhance strongly lethal damage in dna , with an efficiency factor close to 2 for double strand breaks .
in order to disentangle the effect of the nano-design architecture , a comparison with the effects of dispersed metal atoms at the same concentration has been performed .
it is thus shown that the sensitization in nanoparticles is enhanced due to auto-amplified electronic cascades inside the nanoparticles , which reinforces the energy deposition in the close vicinity of the metal .
finally , the combination of fast ion radiation ( hadron therapy ) with platinum nanoparticles should strongly improve cancer therapy protocols .
purpose this study aims to investigate the role of the aberrant expression of transkelolase-like 1 ( tktl1 ) in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( hnscc ) tumorigenesis and to characterize tktl1 contribution to hnscc tumorigenesis through aerobic glycolysis and hif1alpha stabilization .
experimental design tktl1 promoter hypomethylation and mrna/protein aberrant expression were studied in human hnscc tumor samples and normal mucosas .
oncogenic functions of tktl1 were examined in hnscc cell line panels and tumor xenograft models with tktl1 expression construct .
the metabolite levels of fructose-6-phosphate , glyceraldehydes-3-phosphate , pyruvate , lactate , and the levels of hif1alpha protein and its downsteam glycolytic targets were compared between the tktl1-expressing and vehicle-expressing hnscc cells .
meanwhile , the effects of hif1alpha/glycolytic inhibitors were evaluated on the tktl1 transfectants .
results tktl1 exhibits high frequency of promoter hypomethylation in hnscc tumors compared with the normal mucosas , correlating with its overexpression in hnscc .
overexpression of tktl1 in hnscc cells promoted cellular proliferation and enhanced tumor growth in vitro and in vivo .
overexpression of tktl1 increased the production of fructose-6-phosphate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate , in turn elevating the production of pyruvate and lactate , resulting in the normoxic stabilization of the malignancy-promoting transcription factor hif1alpha and the upregulation of downstream glycolytic enzymes .
notably , the reduction of tktl1 expression decreased hif1alpha accumulation and inhibition with hif1alpha and/or the glycolysis inhibitor could abrogate the growth effects mediated by tktl1 overexpression .
conclusion tktl1 is a novel candidate oncogene that is epigenetically activated by aberrant hypomethlation and contributes to a malignant phenotype through altered glycolytic metabolism and hif1alpha accumulation .
brit1 protein ( also known as mcph1 ) contains 3 brct domains which are conserved in brca1 , brca2 , and other important molecules involved in dna damage signaling , dna repair , and tumor suppression .
brit1 mutations or aberrant expression are found in primary microcephaly patients as well as in cancer patients .
recent in vitro studies suggest that brit1/mcph1 functions as a novel key regulator in the dna damage response pathways .
to investigate its physiological role and dissect the underlying mechanisms , we generated brit1(-/-) mice and identified its essential roles in mitotic and meiotic recombination dna repair and in maintaining genomic stability .
both brit1(-/-) mice and mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( mefs ) were hypersensitive to gamma-irradiation .
brit1(-/-) mefs and t lymphocytes exhibited severe chromatid breaks and reduced rad51 foci formation after irradiation .
notably , brit1(-/-) mice were infertile and meiotic homologous recombination was impaired .
brit1-deficient spermatocytes exhibited a failure of chromosomal synapsis , and meiosis was arrested at late zygotene of prophase i accompanied by apoptosis .
in mutant spermatocytes , dna double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) were formed , but localization of rad51 or brca2 to meiotic chromosomes was severely impaired .
in addition , we found that brit1 could bind to rad51/brca2 complexes and that , in the absence of brit1 , recruitment of rad51 and brca2 to chromatin was reduced while their protein levels were not altered , indicating that brit1 is involved in mediating recruitment of rad51/brca2 to the damage site .
collectively , our brit1-null mouse model demonstrates that brit1 is essential for maintaining genomic stability in vivo to protect the hosts from both programmed and irradiation-induced dna damages , and its depletion causes a failure in both mitotic and meiotic recombination dna repair via impairing rad51/brca2's function and as a result leads to infertility and genomic instability in mice .
topoisomerase inhibitors such as camptothecin and etoposide are used as anti-cancer drugs and induce double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) in genomic dna in cycling cells .
these dsbs are often covalently bound with polypeptides at the 3 ' and 5 ' ends .
such modifications must be eliminated before dsb repair can take place , but it remains elusive which nucleases are involved in this process .
previous studies show that ctip plays a critical role in the generation of 3 ' single-strand overhang at " clean " dsbs , thus initiating homologous recombination ( hr)-dependent dsb repair .
to analyze the function of ctip in detail , we conditionally disrupted the ctip gene in the chicken dt40 cell line .
we found that ctip is essential for cellular proliferation as well as for the formation of 3 ' single-strand overhang , similar to what is observed in dt40 cells deficient in the mre11/rad50/nbs1 complex .
we also generated dt40 cell line harboring ctip with an alanine substitution at residue ser332 , which is required for interaction with brca1 .
although the resulting ctip(s332a/-/-) cells exhibited accumulation of rpa and rad51 upon dna damage , and were proficient in hr , they showed a marked hypersensitivity to camptothecin and etoposide in comparison with ctip(+/-/-) cells .
finally , ctip(s332a/-/-)brca1(-/-) and ctip(+/-/-)brca1(-/-) showed similar sensitivities to these reagents .
taken together , our data indicate that , in addition to its function in hr , ctip plays a role in cellular tolerance to topoisomerase inhibitors .
we propose that the brca1-ctip complex plays a role in the nuclease-mediated elimination of oligonucleotides covalently bound to polypeptides from dsbs , thereby facilitating subsequent dsb repair .
purpose monoclonal anti-cd33 antibodies conjugated with toxic calicheamicin derivative ( gemtuzumab ozogamicin , go ) are a novel therapy option for acute myeloid leukaemia ( aml ) .
key prognostic factors for patients with aml are high cd33 expression on the leukaemic cells and the ability to overcome mechanisms of resistance to cytotoxic chemotherapies , including drug efflux or other mechanisms decreasing apoptosis .
alpha particle-emitting radionuclides overwhelm such anti-apoptotic mechanisms by producing numerous dna double-stranded breaks ( dsbs ) accompanied by decreased dna repair .
methods we labelled anti-cd33 antibodies with the alpha-emitter ( 211)at and compared survival of leukaemic hl-60 and k-562 cells treated with the ( 211)at-labelled antibodies , go or unlabelled antibodies as controls .
we also measured caspase-3/7 activity , dna fragmentation and necrosis in hl-60 cells after treatment with the different antibodies or with free ( 211)at .
results the mean labelling ratio of ( 211)at-labelled antibodies was 1:1,090 +/- 364 ( range : 1:738-1:1,722 ) in comparison to 2-3:1 for go .
tumour cell binding of ( 211)at-anti-cd33 was high in the presence of abundant cd33 expression and could be specifically blocked by unlabelled anti-cd33 .
( 211)at-anti-cd33 decreased survival significantly more than did go at comparable dilution ( 1:1,000 ) .
no significant differences in induction of apoptosis or necrosis or dna dsb or in decreased survival were observed after ( 211)at-anti-cd33 ( 1:1,090 ) versus go ( 1:1 ) treatment .
conclusion our results suggest that ( 211)at is a promising , highly cytotoxic radioimmunotherapy in cd33-positive leukaemia and kills tumour cells more efficiently than does calicheamicin-conjugated antibody .
labelling techniques leading to higher chemical yield and specific activities must be developed to increase ( 211)at-anti-cd33 therapeutic effects .
purpose anthracyclines have been widely used as antitumor agents , playing a crucial role in the successful treatment of many types of cancer , despite some side effects related to cardiotoxicity .
new anthracyclines have been designed and tested , but the first ones discovered , doxorubicin and daunorubicin , continue to be the drugs of choice .
despite their extensive use in chemotherapy , little is known about the dna repair mechanisms involved in the removal of lesions caused by anthracyclines .
the anthracycline cosmomycin d is the main product isolated from streptomyces olindensis , characterized by a peculiar pattern of glycosylation with two trisaccharide rings attached to the a ring of the tetrahydrotetracene .
methods we assessed the induction of apoptosis ( sub-g1 ) by cosmomycin d in nucleotide excision repair-deficient fibroblasts ( xp-a and xp-c ) as well as the levels of dna damage ( alkaline comet assay ) .
results treatment of xp-a and xp-c cells with cosmomycin d resulted in apoptosis in a time-dependent manner , with highest apoptosis levels observed 96 h after treatment .
the effects of cosmomycin d were equivalent to those obtained with doxorubicin .
the broad caspase inhibitor z-vad-fmk strongly inhibited apoptosis in these cells , and dna damage induced by cosmomycin d was confirmed by alkaline comet assay .
conclusions cosmomycin d induced time-dependent apoptosis in nucleotide excision repair-deficient fibroblasts .
despite similar apoptosis levels , cosmomycin d caused considerably lower levels of dna damage compared to doxorubicin .
this may be related to differences in structure between cosmomycin d and doxorubicin .
we have developed fluorescent probes for the detection of strand scission in the excision repair of oxidatively damaged bases .
they were hairpin-shaped oligonucleotides , each containing an isomer of thymine glycol or 5,6-dihydrothymine as a damaged base in the center , with a fluorophore and a quencher at the 5'- and 3'-ends , respectively .
fluorescence was detected when the phosphodiester linkage at the damage site was cleaved by the enzyme , because the short fragment bearing the fluorophore could not remain in a duplex form hybridized to the rest of the molecule at the incubation temperature .
the substrate specificities of escherichia coli endonuclease iii and its human homolog , nth1 , determined by using these probes agreed with those determined previously by gel electrophoresis using ( 32)p-labeled substrates .
kinetic parameters have also been determined by this method .
since different fluorophores were attached to the oligonucleotides containing each lesion , reactions with two types of substrates were analyzed separately in a single tube , by changing the excitation and detection wavelengths .
these probes were degraded during an incubation with a cell extract .
therefore , phosphorothioate linkages were incorporated to protect the probes from nonspecific nucleases , and the base excision repair activity was successfully detected in hela cells .
cancer cells constantly adapt to oxidative phosphorylation ( oxphos ) suppression resulting from hypoxia or mitochondria defects .
under the oxphos suppression , amp-activated protein kinase ( ampk ) regulates global metabolism adjustments , but its activation has been found to be transient .
whether cells can maintain cellular atp homeostasis and survive beyond the transient ampk activation is not known .
here , we study the bioenergetic adaptation to the oxphos inhibitor oligomycin in a group of cancer cells .
we found that oligomycin at 100 ng/ml completely inhibits oxphos activity in 1 h and induces various levels of glycolysis gains by 6 h , from which we calculate the bioenergetic organizations of cancer cells .
in glycolysis-dominant cells , oligomycin does not induce much energy stress as measured by glycolysis acceleration , atp imbalance , ampk activation , ampk substrate acetyl-coa carboxylase phosphorylation at ser(79) , and cell growth inhibition .
in oxphos-dependent lkb1 wild type cells , oligomycin induces 5-8% atp drops and transient ampk activation during the initial 1-2 h .
after ampk activation is completed , oligomycin-induced increase of acetyl-coa carboxylase phosphorylation at ser(79) is still detected , and cellular atp is back at preoligomycin treatment levels by sustained elevation of glycolysis .
cell growth , however , is inhibited without an increase in cell death and alteration in cell cycle distribution .
in oxphos-dependent lkb1-null cells , no ampk activation by oligomycin is detected , yet cells still show a similar adaptation .
we also demonstrate that the adaptation to oligomycin does not invoke activation of hypoxia-induced factor .
our data suggest that cancer cells may grow and survive persistent oxphos suppression through an as yet unidentified regulatory mechanism .
it is commonly believed that neurons remain in g(0) phase of the cell cycle indefinitely .
cell-cycle re-entry , however , is known to contribute to neuronal apoptosis .
moreover , recent evidence demonstrates the expression of cell-cycle proteins in differentiated neurons under physiological conditions .
the functional roles of such expression remain unclear .
since dna repair is generally attenuated by differentiation in most cell types , the cell-cycle-associated events in postmitotic cells may reflect the need to re-enter the cell cycle to activate dna repair .
we show that cyclin-c-directed , prb-dependent g(0) exit activates the non-homologous end joining pathway of dna repair ( nhej ) in postmitotic neurons .
using rna interference , we found that abrogation of cyclin-c-mediated exit from g(0) compromised dna repair but did not initiate apoptosis .
forced g(1) entry combined with prevention of g(1) --&gt ; s progression triggered nhej activation even in the absence of dna lesions , but did not induce apoptosis in contrast to unrestricted progression through g(1) --&gt ; s. we conclude that g(0) --&gt ; g(1) transition is functionally significant for nhej repair in postmitotic neurons .
these findings reveal the importance of cell-cycle activation for controlling both dna repair and apoptosis in postmitotic neurons , and underline the particular role of g(1) --&gt ; s progression in apoptotic signaling , providing new insights into the mechanisms of dna damage response ( ddr ) in postmitotic neurons .
in response to dna double strand breaks , the histone variant h2ax at the break site is phosphorylated at serine 139 by dna damage sensor kinases such as ataxia telangiectasia-mutated , forming gamma-h2ax .
this phosphorylation event is critical for sustained recruitment of other proteins to repair the break .
after repair , restoration of the cell to a prestress state is associated with gamma-h2ax dephosphorylation and dissolution of gamma-h2ax-associated damage foci .
the phosphatases pp2a and pp4 have previously been shown to dephosphorylate gamma-h2ax .
here , we demonstrate that the wild-type p53-induced phosphatase 1 ( wip1 ) also dephosphorylates gamma-h2ax at serine 139 in vitro and in vivo .
overexpression of wip1 reduces formation of gamma-h2ax foci in response to ionizing and ultraviolet radiation and blocks recruitment of mdc1 ( mediator of dna damage checkpoint 1 ) and 53bp1 ( p53 binding protein 1 ) to dna damage foci .
finally , these inhibitory effects of wip1 on gamma-h2ax are accompanied by wip1 suppression of dna double strand break repair .
thus , wip1 has a homeostatic role in reversing the effects of ataxia telangiectasia-mutated phosphorylation of h2ax .
the anti-apoptotic protein , bax inhibitor-1 ( bi-1 ) , has a role in cancer/tumor progression .
bi-1-overexpressing ht1080 and b16f10 cells produced higher lung weights and tumor volumes after injection into the tail veins of mice .
transfection of bi-1 sirna into cells before injection blocked lung metastasis. in vitro , the overexpression of bi-1 increased cell mobility and invasiveness , with highly increased glucose consumption and cytosolic accumulation of lactate and pyruvate , but decreased mitochondrial o(2) consumption and atp production .
glucose metabolism-associated extracellular ph also decreased as cells excreted more h(+) , and sodium hydrogen exchanger ( nhe ) activity increased , probably as a homeostatic mechanism for intracellular ph .
these alterations activated mmp 2/9 and cell mobility and invasiveness , which were reversed by the nhe inhibitor , 5-(n-ethyl-n-isopropyl) amiloride ( eipa ) , suggesting a role for nhe in cancer metastasis .
in both in vitro and in vivo experiments , c-terminal deleted ( cdeltabi-1 ) cells showed similar results to control cells , suggesting that the c-terminal motif is required for bi-1-associated alterations of glucose metabolism , nhe activation and cancer metastasis .
these findings strongly suggest that bi-1 reduces extracellular ph and regulates metastasis by altering glucose metabolism and activating nhe , with the c-terminal tail having a pivotal role in these processes .
we investigated the mechanisms of dna exit during single-cell gel electrophoresis ( the comet assay ) by measuring the kinetics of the comet tail formation .
in the neutral comet assay , the rate of dna exit was found to be dependent on the topological state of dna , which was influenced by either ethidium bromide or a low radiation dose .
the results clearly show that the comet tail is formed by extended dna loops : the loop extension , being reversible when the dna torsional constraint remains in the loops , is favored when the constraint is relaxed .
the kinetics of the comet formation in the case of a high radiation dose points out that accumulation of the single-strand breaks causes dna fragmentation .
in contrast to the neutral comet assay , the alkaline comet assay is not related to the chromatin loops .
our results imply that the alkaline treatment induces detachment of the loops from the nuclear matrix , and the comet tail is formed by ssdna fragments , the ends of which are pulled out from the comet head by electric force .
we suggest that the kinetic approach can be considered as an important improvement of the comet assay .
homologous recombination ( hr ) is essential for repair of meiotic dna double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) .
although the mechanisms of rad-51-dna filament assembly and strand exchange are well characterized , the subsequent steps of hr are less well defined .
here , we describe a synthetic lethal interaction between the c. elegans helicase helq-1 and rad-51 paralog rfs-1 , which results in a block to meiotic dsb repair after strand invasion .
whereas rad-51-ssdna filaments assemble at meiotic dsbs with normal kinetics in helq-1 , rfs-1 double mutants , persistence of rad-51 foci and genetic interactions with rtel-1 suggest a failure to disassemble rad-51 from strand invasion intermediates .
indeed , purified helq-1 and rfs-1 independently bind to and promote the disassembly of rad-51 from double-stranded , but not single-stranded , dna filaments via distinct mechanisms in vitro .
these results indicate that two compensating activities are required to promote postsynaptic rad-51 filament disassembly , which are collectively essential for completion of meiotic dsb repair .
diphenyl ditelluride ( dpdt ) is a potential prototype for the development of novel biologically active molecules .
thus , it is important to evaluate the toxic effects of this compound .
in the present study , we evaluated the cytotoxic , genotoxic and mutagenic properties of dpdt in chinese hamster fibroblast ( v79 ) cells , in strains of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae both proficient and deficient in several dna repair pathways and in salmonella typhimurium .
dpdt induced frameshift mutations in both s.typhimurium and a haploid wild-type strain of s.cerevisiae .
mutants of s.cerevisiae defective in base excision repair and recombinational repair were more sensitive to dpdt .
the results of a lactate dehydrogenase leakage assay suggest that dpdt is cytotoxic to v79 cells .
at cytotoxic concentrations , this compound increased thiobarbituric reactive species levels and decreased the glutathione:gssh ratio in yeast and v79 cells .
dpdt generated single- and double-strand dna breaks in v79 cells , both with and without metabolic activation , as revealed by alkaline and neutral comet assays .
moreover , an induction of oxidative dna base damage was indicated by a modified comet assay using formamidopyrimidine dna glycosylase and endonuclease iii .
treatment with dpdt also induced micronucleus formation in v79 cells .
pre-incubation with n-acetylcysteine reduced dpdt's oxidative , genotoxic and mutagenic effects in yeast and v79 cells .
our results suggest that the toxic and mutagenic properties of dpdt may stem from its ability to disturb the redox balance of the cell , which leads to oxidative stress and the induction of dna damage .
dna damage checkpoints arrest cell cycle progression to facilitate dna repair .
the ability to survive genotoxic insults depends not only on the initiation of cell cycle checkpoints but also on checkpoint maintenance .
while activation of dna damage checkpoints has been studied extensively , molecular mechanisms involved in sustaining and ultimately inactivating cell cycle checkpoints are largely unknown .
here , we explored feedback mechanisms that control the maintenance and termination of checkpoint function by computationally identifying an evolutionary conserved mitotic phosphorylation network within the dna damage response .
we demonstrate that the non-enzymatic checkpoint adaptor protein 53bp1 is an in vivo target of the cell cycle kinases cyclin-dependent kinase-1 and polo-like kinase-1 ( plk1 ) .
we show that plk1 binds 53bp1 during mitosis and that this interaction is required for proper inactivation of the dna damage checkpoint. 53bp1 mutants that are unable to bind plk1 fail to restart the cell cycle after ionizing radiation-mediated cell cycle arrest .
importantly , we show that plk1 also phosphorylates the 53bp1-binding checkpoint kinase chk2 to inactivate its fha domain and inhibit its kinase activity in mammalian cells .
thus , a mitotic kinase-mediated negative feedback loop regulates the atm-chk2 branch of the dna damage signaling network by phosphorylating conserved sites in 53bp1 and chk2 to inactivate checkpoint signaling and control checkpoint duration .
class switch recombination ( csr ) in b lymphocytes is initiated by introduction of multiple dna double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) into switch ( s ) regions that flank immunoglobulin heavy chain ( igh ) constant region exons .
csr is completed by joining a dsb in the donor s mu to a dsb in a downstream acceptor s region ( e.g. , s gamma1 ) by end-joining .
in normal cells , many csr junctions are mediated by classical nonhomologous end-joining ( c-nhej ) , which employs the ku70/80 complex for dsb recognition and xrcc4/dna ligase 4 for ligation .
alternative end-joining ( a-ej ) mediates csr , at reduced levels , in the absence of c-nhej , even in combined absence of ku70 and ligase 4 , demonstrating an a-ej pathway totally distinct from c-nhej .
multiple dsbs are introduced into s mu during csr , with some being rejoined or joined to each other to generate internal switch deletions ( isds ) .
in addition , s-region dsbs can be joined to other chromosomes to generate translocations , the level of which is increased by absence of a single c-nhej component ( e.g. , xrcc4 ) .
we asked whether isd and s-region translocations occur in the complete absence of c-nhej ( e.g. , in ku70/ligase 4 double-deficient b cells ) .
we found , unexpectedly , that b-cell activation for csr generates substantial isd in both s mu and s gamma1 and that isd in both is greatly increased by the absence of c-nhej .
igh chromosomal translocations to the c-myc oncogene also are augmented in the combined absence of ku70 and ligase 4 .
we discuss the implications of these findings for a-ej in normal and abnormal dsb repair .
cancer cells preferentially metabolize glucose by aerobic glycolysis , characterized by increased lactate production .
this distinctive metabolism involves expression of the embryonic m2 isozyme of pyruvate kinase , in contrast to the m1 isozyme normally expressed in differentiated cells , and it confers a proliferative advantage to tumor cells .
the m1 and m2 pyruvate-kinase isozymes are expressed from a single gene through alternative splicing of a pair of mutually exclusive exons .
we measured the expression of m1 and m2 mrna and protein isoforms in mouse tissues , tumor cell lines , and during terminal differentiation of muscle cells , and show that alternative splicing regulation is sufficient to account for the levels of expressed protein isoforms .
we further show that the m1-specific exon is actively repressed in cancer-cell lines--although some m1 mrna is expressed in cell lines derived from brain tumors--and demonstrate that the related splicing repressors hnrnp a1 and a2 , as well as the polypyrimidine-tract-binding protein ptb , contribute to this control .
downregulation of these splicing repressors in cancer-cell lines using shrnas rescues m1 isoform expression and decreases the extent of lactate production .
these findings extend the links between alternative splicing and cancer , and begin to define some of the factors responsible for the switch to aerobic glycolysis .
aerobic glycolysis and mitochondrial dysfunction are common features of aggressive cancer growth .
we observed promoter methylation and loss of expression in neurofilament heavy polypeptide ( nefh ) in a significant proportion of primary esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( escc ) samples that were of a high tumor grade and advanced stage .
rna interference-mediated knockdown of nefh accelerated escc cell growth in culture and increased tumorigenicity in vivo , whereas forced expression of nefh significantly inhibited cell growth and colony formation .
loss of nefh caused up-regulation of pyruvate kinase-m2 type and down-regulation of pyruvate dehydrogenase , via activation of the akt/beta-catenin pathway , resulting in enhanced aerobic glycolysis and mitochondrial dysfunction .
the acceleration of glycolysis and mitochondrial dysfunction in nefh-knockdown cells was suppressed in the absence of beta-catenin expression , and was decreased by the treatment of 2-deoxyglucose , a glycolytic inhibitor , or api-2 , an akt inhibitor .
loss of nefh activates the akt/beta-catenin pathway and increases glycolysis and mitochondrial dysfunction .
cancer cells with methylated nefh can be targeted for destruction with specific inhibitors of deregulated downstream pathways .
the relationship between dna damage and repair of peripheral blood leukocytes , liver , kidney and brain cells was investigated in swiss albino mice ( mus musculus l. ) after exposure to sevoflurane ( 2.4 vol% for 2 h daily , for 3 days ) .
genetic damage of mouse cells was investigated by the comet assay and micronucleus test .
to perform the comet assay , mice were divided into a control group and 4 groups of exposed mice sacrificed on day 3 of the experiment , at 0 , 2 , 6 or 24 h after the last exposure to sevoflurane .
mean tail length ( tl ) , tail moment ( tm ) , and tail intensity ( ti ) values were significantly higher in exposed mice ( all examined organs ) than in the control group .
significant dna damage immediately after exposure to sevoflurane was observed in leukocytes .
damage induction in the liver , kidney , and brain occurred 6 h later than in leukocytes , as expected according to the toxicokinetics of the drug , where blood is the first compartment to absorb sevoflurane .
however , none of the tested tissues revealed signs of repair until 24 h after the exposure .
to distinguish the unrepaired genome damage in vivo , the micronucleus test was applied .
number of micronuclei in reticulocytes showed a statistically significant increase , as compared with the control group at all observed times after the treatment .
colorectal cancer ( crc ) arises as the consequence of progressive changes from normal epithelial cells through polyp to tumor , and thus is an useful model for studying metabolic shift .
in the present study , we studied the metabolomic profiles using high analyte specific gas chromatography/mass spectrometry ( gc/ms ) and liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry ( lc/ms/ms ) to attain a systems-level view of the shift in metabolism in cells progressing along the path to crc .
colonic tissues including tumor , polyps and adjacent matched normal mucosa from 26 patients with sporadic crc from freshly isolated resections were used for this study .
the metabolic profiles were obtained using gc/ms and lc/ms/ms .
our data suggest there was a distinct profile change of a wide range of metabolites from mucosa to tumor tissues .
various amino acids and lipids in the polyps and tumors were elevated , suggesting higher energy needs for increased cellular proliferation .
in contrast , significant depletion of glucose and inositol in polyps revealed that glycolysis may be critical in early tumorigenesis .
in addition , the accumulation of hypoxanthine and xanthine , and the decrease of uric acid concentration , suggest that the purine biosynthesis pathway could have been substituted by the salvage pathway in crc .
further , there was a step-wise reduction of deoxycholic acid concentration from mucosa to tumors .
it appears that to gain a growth advantage , cancer cells may adopt alternate metabolic pathways in tumorigenesis and this flexibility allows them to adapt and thrive in harsh environment .
although the etiology of primary brain tumors is largely unknown , prior studies suggest that dna repair polymorphisms may influence risk of glioma .
altered dna repair is also likely to affect the risk of meningioma and acoustic neuroma , but these tumors have not been well studied .
we estimated the risk of glioma ( n = 362 ) , meningioma ( n = 134 ) , and acoustic neuroma ( n = 69 ) in non-hispanic whites with respect to 36 single nucleotide polymorphisms from 26 genes involved in dna repair in a hospital-based , case-control study conducted by the national cancer institute .
we observed significantly increased risk of meningioma with the t variant of gltscr1 rs1035938 ( or(ct/tt) = 3.5 ; 95% confidence interval : 1.8-6.9 ; p(trend) .0006 ) , which persisted after controlling for multiple comparisons ( p = .019 ) .
significantly increased meningioma risk was also observed for the minor allele variants of ercc4 rs1800067 ( p(trend) .01 ) ; mutyh rs3219466 ( p(trend) .02 ) , and pcna rs25406 ( p(trend) .03 ) .
the nbn rs1805794 minor allele variant was associated with decreased meningioma risk ( p(trend) .006 ) .
risk of acoustic neuroma was increased for the ercc2 rs1799793 ( p(trend) .03 ) and ercc5 rs17655 ( p(trend) .05 ) variants and decreased for the parp1 rs1136410 ( p(trend) .03 ) .
decreased glioma risk was observed with the xrcc1 rs1799782 variant ( p(trend) .04 ) .
our results suggest that common dna repair variants may affect the risk of adult brain tumors , especially meningioma .
the neurofibromatosis type 2 ( nf2 ) tumor suppressor gene encodes merlin , a membrane/cytoskeleton protein necessary for the maintenance of contact inhibition of growth in cells .
bi-allelic inactivation of nf2 is known to cause multiple cancers in both humans and mice .
however , the mechanism through which merlin exerts its tumor-suppressive function remains obscure .
in this report , we show that nf2 knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts lost contact inhibition of cell proliferation and contained significantly increased canonical wnt signaling .
inhibition of rac1 , the activity of which is inversely regulated by nf2 , through the use of a dominant-negative mutant , small hairpin rna or a small molecule inhibitor in nf2-deficient cells , was able to suppress elevated wnt signals as shown by reduced activity of the t-cell factor 4 ( tcf4 ) transcription factor .
dominant-negative tcf4 or rac1 mutant , as well as a small molecule inhibition of wnt , were able to curb nf2 deficiency-elicited cell proliferation at the confluent state .
thus , rac1-mediated canonical wnt signaling is essential for the loss of contact inhibition in nf2-deficient cells .
the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase ( pi3k)/akt oncogenic pathway is critical in glioblastomas .
loss of pten , a negative regulator of the pi3k pathway or activated pi3k/akt pathway that drive increased proliferation , survival , neovascularization , glycolysis , and invasion is found in 70%-80% of malignant gliomas .
thus , pi3k is an attractive therapeutic target for malignant glioma .
we report that a new irreversible pi3k inhibitor , px-866 , shows potent inhibitory effects on the pi3k/akt signaling pathway in glioblastoma .
px-866 did not induce any apoptosis in glioma cells ; however , an increase in autophagy was observed .
px-866 inhibited the invasive and angiogenic capabilities of cultured glioblastoma cells .
in vivo , px-866 inhibited subcutaneous tumor growth and increased the median survival time of animals with intracranial tumors .
we also assessed the potential of proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( mrs ) as a noninvasive method to monitor response to px-866 .
our findings show that px-866 treatment causes a drop in the mrs-detectable choline-to-naa , ratio and identify this partial normalization of the tumor metabolic profile as a biomarker of molecular drug action .
our studies affirm that the pi3k pathway is a highly specific molecular target for therapies for glioblastoma and other cancers with aberrant pi3k/pten expression .
overexpression of the adverse prognostic marker erbb2 occurs in 30% of breast cancers ; however , therapies targeting this gene have not proved to be as effective as was initially hoped .
transcriptional profiling meta-analyses have shown that there are approximately 150 genes co-overexpressed with erbb2 , suggesting that these genes may represent alternative factors influencing erbb2-positive tumors .
here we describe an rna interference-based analysis of these genes that identifies transcriptional regulators of fat synthesis and storage as being critical for the survival of these cells .
these transcription factors , nuclear receptor subfamily 1 , group d , member 1 ( nr1d1 ) and peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma binding protein ( pbp ) , both reside on erbb2-containing 17q12-21 amplicons and are part of the erbb2 expression signature .
we show that nr1d1 and pbp act through a common pathway in upregulating several genes in the de novo fatty acid synthesis network , which is highly active in erbb2-positive breast cancer cells .
malate dehydrogenase 1 and malic enzyme 1 , enzymes that link glycolysis and fatty acid synthesis , are also regulated by nr1d1 .
the resulting high-level fat production from increased expression of these genes likely contributes to an abnormal cellular energy metabolism based on aerobic glycolysis .
together , these results show that the cells of this aggressive form of breast cancer are genetically preprogrammed to depend on nr1d1 and pbp for the energy production necessary for survival .
ataxia-telangiectasia mutated ( atm ) is a cellular damage sensor that coordinates the cell cycle with damage-response checkpoints and dna repair to preserve genomic integrity .
however , atm also has been implicated in metabolic regulation , and atm deficiency is associated with elevated reactive oxygen species ( ros ) .
ros has a central role in many physiological and pathophysiological processes including inflammation and chronic diseases such as atherosclerosis and cancer , underscoring the importance of cellular pathways involved in redox homeostasis .
we have identified a cytoplasmic function for atm that participates in the cellular damage response to ros .
we show that in response to elevated ros , atm activates the tsc2 tumor suppressor via the lkb1/ampk metabolic pathway in the cytoplasm to repress mtorc1 and induce autophagy .
importantly , elevated ros and dysregulation of mtorc1 in atm-deficient cells is inhibited by rapamycin , which also rescues lymphomagenesis in atm-deficient mice .
our results identify a cytoplasmic pathway for ros-induced atm activation of tsc2 to regulate mtorc1 signaling and autophagy , identifying an integration node for the cellular damage response with key pathways involved in metabolism , protein synthesis , and cell survival .
background &amp ; objective hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer ( hnpcc or lynch syndrome ) , is a genetically heterogeneous disorder that is believed to account for 2-10 per cent of all the colorectal cancer cases .
the disease follows autosomal dominant inheritance pattern with high penetrance ( 85% ) and younger age of onset when compared to patients with sporadic tumours .
hnpcc is associated with germ-line mutations in the dna mismatch repair ( mmr ) genes namely mlh1 , msh2 , msh6 , and pms2 .
the present study was aimed at analyzing mismatch repair gene(s) in an extended indian family satisfying the amsterdam criteria , and extending the analysis to general population to estimate frequency of the mutations/polymorphisms observed .
methods a total 12 members of the hnpcc family were studied for genetic investigation .
ethnically matched 250 normal individuals were also included as controls to study the observed mutations/polymorphisms at population level .
results the analysis resulted in identification of a 1975c&gt;t mutation in exon 17 , resulting in substitution of arginine residue with stop codon at codon 659. 655a&gt;g substitution was also observed , resulting in replacement of isoleucine with valine at codon 219 .
similar analysis on 250 ethnically matched control subjects revealed complete absence of r659x mutation , while i219v variant was found in 9.8 per cent of the controls .
interpretation &amp ; conclusion r659x mutation correlates with disease phenotype , and 655a&gt;g locus is highly polymorphic .
our study suggested that r659x substitution was prime cause for the disease phenotype in this family .
i219v substitution is a polymorphism having no association with the disease onset or segregation .
the family members harbouring this mutation were advised to be under regular medical surveillance .
background lung cancer often develops in association with chronic pulmonary inflammatory diseases with an influx of neutrophils .
more detailed information on inflammatory pathways and the role of neutrophils herein is a prerequisite for understanding the mechanism of inflammation associated cancer .
methods in the present study , we used microarrays in order to obtain a global view of the transcriptional responses of the lung to lps in mice , which mimics an acute lung inflammation .
to investigate the influence of neutrophils in this process , we depleted mice from circulating neutrophils by treatment with anti-pmn antibodies prior to lps exposure .
results a total of 514 genes was greater than 1.5-fold differentially expressed in the lps induced lung inflammation model. 394 of the 514 were up regulated genes mostly involved in cell cycle and immune/inflammation related processes , such as cytokine/chemokine activity and signalling .
down regulated genes represented nonimmune processes , such as development , metabolism and transport .
notably , the number of genes and pathways that were differentially expressed , was reduced when animals were depleted from circulating neutrophils , confirming the central role of neutrophils in the inflammatory response .
furthermore , there was a significant correlation between the differentially expressed gene list and the promutagenic dna lesion m1dg , suggesting that it is the extent of the immune response which drives genetic instability in the inflamed lung .
several genes that were specifically regulated by the presence of activated neutrophils could be identified and these were mostly involved in interferon signalling , oxidative stress response and cell cycle progression .
the latter possibly refers to a higher rate of cell turnover in the inflamed lung with neutrophils , suggesting that the neutrophil influx is associated with a higher risk for the accumulation and fixation of mutations .
conclusion gene expression profiling identified specific genes and pathways that are related to neutrophilic inflammation and could be associated to cancer development and indicate an active role of neutrophils in mediating the lps induced inflammatory response in the mouse lung .
aim colorectal cancer is the third most common form of cancer in the industrial countries .
due to advances regarding the treatments , primarily development of improved surgical methods and the ability to make the earlier diagnosis , the mortality has remained constant during the past decades even though the incidence in fact has increased .
to improve chemotherapy and enable personalised treatment , the need of biomarkers is of great significance .
in this study , we evaluated the gene expression profiles of the colon cancer cell lines treated with sn-38 , the active metabolite of topoisomerase-1 inhibitor irinotecan which leads to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis .
material and methods the study included 3 colon cancer cell lines : km12c , km12sm and km12l4a .
the 3 cell lines were treated with sn-38 , and samples were obtained after 24 and 48 hour treatments .
the gene expression analyses were performed using oligonucleotide microarrays comprising of approximately 27,000 spots where the untreated controls were compared to the sn-38-treated samples .
results unsupervised clustering clearly distinguished the treated cell lines from the untreated .
supervised analysis identified 3,974 significant genes ( p = 0.05 ) differentiating the treated samples from the untreated , majority of which were down-regulated after treatment .
the top-ranked down-regulated genes in the treated cell lines included those related to receptor and kinase activity , signal transduction , apoptosis , rna processing , protein metabolism and transport , cell cycle and transcription .
a smaller number of genes were up-regulated in the cell lines after treatment and included genes involved in apoptosis , transcription , development and differentiation .
conclusions these results demonstrate that the expression of the genes involved in cell proliferation and apoptosis as well as rna , dna and protein metabolism were affected by sn-38 .
the impact of certain genes on colorectal cancer development needs to be further evaluated ; however , these results could serve as a basis for further studies in order to find targets for irinotecan treatment .
hypoxia is widespread in solid tumors as a consequence of poorly structured tumor-derived neovasculature , which is recognized to play a role in the resistance of cancer cells to chemotherapy .
etoposide ( vp-16 ) , a drug commonly used in chemotherapy , leads to enhanced accumulation of cell populations in g2/m phase and increases levels of apoptosis as a topoisomerase ii inhibitor .
we evaluated the effects of hypoxia on the response of the neuroblastoma cell line chp126 to vp-16 , in order to delineate the mechanisms responsible for the hypoxia-induced chemoresistance of this clinically conventional anti-cancer agent , with an insight to determining potential indications in neuroblastoma therapy .
in this study , physiological hypoxia was shown to attenuate g2/m arrest and apoptosis induced in chp126 cells by vp-16 .
it suppressed drug-related cdk1 activity with a less elevation of regulator proteins such as cyclin b1 , cdk7 and reduced caspase activation and parp cleavage compared to the efficiency observed in normoxic condition , which were significantly relative with hypoxia-driven inhibition of p53 and p-erk1/2 activation .
these results clearly demonstrated that hypoxia had a protective effect against vp-16-induced cytotoxicity , which is likely to provide a further therapeutic knowledge in neuroblastomas .
the aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( ahr ) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that mediates a spectrum of toxic and biological effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin and related compounds .
several reports have shown that the ahr plays an important role in the control of cell-cycle progression , and this function is thought to be partly associated with the tumor promotion activity of dioxin .
however , the underling mechanisms are not fully understood .
we have previously shown that overexpression of ahr , as well as ahr ligand treatment , stimulates cell proliferation of human lung cancer a549 cells .
in ahr-activated cells , the expression levels of dna synthesis-related genes such as proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( pcna ) and rfc38 are notably increased .
expression of these genes is mainly regulated by e2f1 , a transcription factor that is crucial for transition of the cell cycle from g1 to s phase .
we show here that the transcriptional activity of e2f1 is increased by the ahr agonist treatment and that this effect depends on the presence of ahr .
functional mapping of ahr showed that the per-arnt-sim ( pas ) b domain is required for promotion of e2f1 activity .
the mechanism involves formation of a complex of ahr and e2f1 on the regulatory region in the e2f1 target gene , followed by recruitment of coactivator activator for thyroid hormone and retinoid receptors ( actr ) .
consequently , the results in this study indicate the physiological function of ahr as a potent transcriptional coactivator of e2f1-dependent transcription and implicate the ahr-e2f1 interaction as a part of the mechanism by which ahr/arnt promotes cell proliferation .
although anticancer effect of gambogic acid ( ga ) and its potential mechanisms were well documented in past decades , limited information is available on the anticancer effect of gambogenic acid ( gna ) , another major active component of gamboge .
here we performed a study to determine whether gna possesses anticancer effect and find its potential mechanisms .
the results suggested that gna significantly inhibited the proliferation of several tumor cell lines in vitro and in vivo .
treatment with gna dose and time dependently induced a549 cells apoptosis , arrested the cells to g0/g1 phase in vitro and down-regulated the expression of cyclin d1 and cyclooxygenase ( cox)-2 in mrna level .
in addition , anticancer effect was further demonstrated by applying xenografts in nude mice coupled with the characteristic of apoptosis in the gna treated group .
taken together , these observations might suggest that gna inhibits tumor cell proliferation via apoptosis-induction and cell cycle arrest .
cancer cells upregulate glycolysis , increasing glucose uptake to meet energy needs .
a small fraction of a cell's glucose enters the hexosamine biosynthetic pathway ( hbp ) , which regulates levels of o-linked beta-n-acetylglucosamine ( o-glcnac ) , a carbohydrate posttranslational modification of diverse nuclear and cytosolic proteins .
we discovered that breast cancer cells upregulate the hbp , including increased o-glcnacation and elevated expression of o-glcnac transferase ( ogt ) , which is the enzyme catalyzing the addition of o-glcnac to proteins .
reduction of o-glcnacation through rna interference of ogt in breast cancer cells leads to inhibition of tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo and is associated with decreased cell-cycle progression and increased expression of the cell-cycle inhibitor p27(kip1) .
elevation of p27(kip1) was associated with decreased expression and activity of the oncogenic transcription factor foxm1 , a known regulator of p27(kip1) stability through transcriptional control of skp2 .
reducing o-glcnac levels in breast cancer cells decreased levels of foxm1 protein and caused a decrease in multiple foxm1-specific targets , including skp2 .
moreover , reducing o-glcnacation decreased cancer cell invasion and was associated with the downregulation of matrix metalloproteinase-2 , a known foxm1 target .
finally , pharmacological inhibition of ogt in breast cancer cells had similar anti-growth and anti-invasion effects .
these findings identify o-glcnac as a novel mechanism through which alterations in glucose metabolism regulate cancer growth and invasion and suggest that ogt may represent novel therapeutic targets for breast cancer .
ataxia telangiectasia ( at ) cells , with their defective double-strand break ( dsb ) repair processes , exhibit high sensitivity to low-let radiation such as x-rays irradiation and gamma beams .
since heavy ion beam treatment for cancer is becoming increasingly common in japan and elsewhere , it is important to also determine their sensitivity to high-let radiation .
for this purpose we irradiated at and normal human cells immortalized with the human telomerase gene using high- ( 24-60 kev/microm carbon and 200 kev/microm iron ions ) or low-let ( x-rays ) radiation in non-proliferative conditions .
in normal cells the rbe ( relative biological effectiveness ) of carbon and iron ions increased from 1.19 to 1.81 in proportion to let .
in contrast , their rbe in at cells increased from 1.32 at 24 kev/microm to 1.59 at 40 kev/microm , and exhibited a plateau at over 40 kev/microm .
in normal cells most gamma-h2ax foci induced by both carbon- and iron-ion beams had disappeared at 40 h .
in at cells , however , a significant number of gamma-h2ax foci were still observed at 40 h .
the rbes found in the at cells after heavy-ion irradiation were consistent with the effects predicted from the presence of non-homologous end joining defects .
the dsbs remaining after heavy-ion irradiation suggested defects in the at cells ' dsb repair ability .
previous epidemiologic observational and experimental studies investigated the potential of antioxidant micronutrients to modulate cancer risk , but these studies produced inconsistent results .
in this pilot , randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled clinical trial ( n = 47 ) , we assessed the effects of an antioxidant micronutrient combination ( 800 mg dl-alpha-tocopherol acetate , 24 mg beta-carotene , 1.0 g vitamin c , 200 microg l-selenomethionine , 7.2 mg riboflavin , 80 mg niacin , 60 mg zinc , 5 mg manganese ) given daily over 4 months on oxidative and inflammatory biomarkers in patients with a history of sporadic colorectal adenoma .
plasma tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , interleukin-6 , and f2-isoprostane concentrations were measured using elisas , and cystine ( cyss ) was measured using high-performance liquid chromatography .
plasma tnf-alpha concentration decreased in the active treatment group by 37% relative to the placebo group ( p = 0.002 ) , and cyss decreased by 19% ( p = 0.03 ) ; however , interleukin-6 and f2-isoprostane concentrations decreased in antioxidant-treated nonsmokers but increased in smokers , although these findings were not statistically significant .
the decreases of tnf-alpha and cyss were more pronounced in nonsmokers .
these data suggest that ( a ) an antioxidant micronutrient cocktail can modulate biomarkers of oxidative stress and inflammation in humans and ( b ) the effects of antioxidant micronutrient supplementation on biomarkers of inflammation and oxidative stress may differ according to smoking status .
the tumor suppressor p27(kip1) is an inhibitor of cyclin/cyclin-dependent kinase ( cdk ) complexes and plays a crucial role in cell cycle regulation .
nevertheless , p27 function in the tumorigenesis of the uterine cervix has been poorly defined .
some phenomenon hints that hpv e7 protein can enhance p27 expression , which is contradictory to hpv e7's property of increasing cell proliferation rate .
so , in the present study , we have examined the effect of e7 on p27 expression .
though the levels of p27 are increased after hpv e7 expression , most of the p27 protein localized in the cytoplasm and have no function on cell cycle arrest and contact inhibition .
the cell migration rate is elevated when p27 is high expression and located in cytoplasm .
the results indicated that e7-p27 interaction not only abolished the p27's cell cycle inhibitory function by sequestering it to the cytoplasm , but also endow the cell with invasive property which is the feature of malignant cells .
bilateral spontaneous pneumothorax is a rare occurrence in patients with both primary and metastatic lung cancer .
pneumothorax occurring as a complication of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor ( vegfr ) inhibitor therapy has not been previously described in the medical literature .
sunitinib malate is a vegfr inhibitor approved for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma .
we present a patient with metastatic renal cell carcinoma manifested as bilateral pulmonary nodules who developed a bilateral spontaneous pneumothorax 3 weeks after initiation of sunitinib therapy .
we believe that sunitinib therapy resulted in necrosis of multiple pleural-based pulmonary nodules with central cavernization and ultimately rupture with bronchopleural fistula formation .
based on this experience , we advise that practitioners exercise caution when prescribing anti-vegfr therapy in patients with pleural-based pulmonary metastases and recognize that the efficacy and toxicity of these agents may be closely linked .
introduction various agents used in breast cancer chemotherapy provoke dna double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) .
dsb repair competence determines the sensitivity of cells to these agents whereby aberrations in the repair machinery leads to apoptosis .
proteins required for this pathway can be detected as nuclear foci at sites of dna damage when the pathway is intact .
here we investigate whether focus formation of repair proteins can predict chemosensitivity of breast cancer .
methods core needle biopsy specimens were obtained from sixty cases of primary breast cancer before and 18-24 hours after the first cycle of neoadjuvant epirubicin plus cyclophosphamide ( ec ) treatment .
nuclear focus formation of dna damage repair proteins was immunohistochemically analyzed and compared with tumor response to chemotherapy .
results ec treatment induced nuclear foci of gammah2ax , conjugated ubiquitin , and rad51 in a substantial amount of cases .
in contrast , brca1 foci were observed before treatment in the majority of the cases and only decreased after ec in thirteen cases .
the presence of brca1- , gammah2ax- , or rad51-foci before treatment or the presence of rad51-foci after treatment was inversely correlated with tumor response to chemotherapy .
dna damage response ( ddr ) competence was further evaluated by considering all four repair indicators together .
a high ddr score significantly correlated with low tumor response to ec and ec + docetaxel whereas other clinicopathological factors analyzed did not .
conclusions high performing ddr focus formation resulted in tumor resistance to dna damage-inducing chemotherapy .
our results suggested an importance of evaluation of ddr competence to predict breast cancer chemosensitivity , and merits further studying into its usefulness in exclusion of non-responder patients .
background astaxanthin modulates immune response , inhibits cancer cell growth , reduces bacterial load and gastric inflammation , and protects against uva-induced oxidative stress in in vitro and rodent models .
similar clinical studies in humans are unavailable .
our objective is to study the action of dietary astaxanthin in modulating immune response , oxidative status and inflammation in young healthy adult female human subjects .
methods participants ( averaged 21.5 yr ) received 0 , 2 , or 8 mg astaxanthin ( n = 14/diet ) daily for 8 wk in a randomized double-blind , placebo-controlled study .
immune response was assessed on wk 0 , 4 and 8 , and tuberculin test performed on wk 8 .
results plasma astaxanthin increased ( p &lt ; 0.01 ) dose-dependently after 4 or 8 wk of supplementation .
astaxanthin decreased a dna damage biomarker after 4 wk but did not affect lipid peroxidation .
plasma c-reactive protein concentration was lower ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) on wk 8 in subjects given 2 mg astaxanthin .
dietary astaxanthin stimulated mitogen-induced lymphoproliferation , increased natural killer cell cytotoxic activity , and increased total t and b cell subpopulations , but did not influence populations of thelper , tcytotoxic or natural killer cells .
a higher percentage of leukocytes expressed the lfa-1 marker in subjects given 2 mg astaxanthin on wk 8 .
subjects fed 2 mg astaxanthin had a higher tuberculin response than unsupplemented subjects .
there was no difference in tnf and il-2 concentrations , but plasma ifn-gamma and il-6 increased on wk 8 in subjects given 8 mg astaxanthin .
conclusion therefore , dietary astaxanthin decreases a dna damage biomarker and acute phase protein , and enhances immune response in young healthy females .
background the ptalpha/pretcr regulates the beta-selection , a crucial t-cell developmental checkpoint , providing a most potent survival advantage to thymocytes mediated by the src-kinase p56(lck) .
methods to define the relevance of ptalpha in human t-cell lymphoblastic leukemia ( t-all ) , we analyzed in t-all cell lines ( n=14 ) ptalpha and p56(lck) mrna and protein expression as also the tyrosine-phosphorylation .
the p56(lck) specific src-protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor ( ptk-i ) pp1 was used in growth inhibition assays .
ic(50) value determination , cell cycle- and apoptosis analyses were performed in t-all- , non-t-all- and murine transgenic cell lines .
results ptalpha expression patterns were markedly different in t-all cell lines as compared to those reported for normal lymphoid counterparts .
pp1 induced in 6/11 t-all cell lines a survival disadvantage resulting from a cell cycle arrest in the g(1/0) phase in thymic lymphoblastic cells and apoptosis induction in the immature cell line hsb-2 , respectively .
pp1 sensitive cell lines expressed the target protein p56(lck) and showed a corresponding p-tyr signal .
conclusion sensitivity of thymic t-alls to pp1 clearly underlines the impact of ptalpha mediated proliferation in this leukemic sub-type .
in addition , p56(lck) represents also independently of ptalpha a promising therapeutical target for the src-kinase inhibitors in neoplastic lymphoid diseases .
prostate cancer ( pca ) is the most common invasive malignancy and the second leading cause of cancer-related death in males .
the present study investigated the effects of fangchinoline ( fan ) , an important compound in stephania tetradra s. moore ( fenfangji ) with pain-relieving , blood pressure-depressing , and antibiotic activities , on human pca .
it was found that fan inhibited human prostate cancer cell lines ( pc3 ) cell proliferation in a dose- and time-dependent manner .
studies of cell-cycle progression showed that the anti-proliferative effect of fan was associated with an increase in the g1/s phase of pc3 cells .
western blot results indicated that fan-induced g1/s phase arrest was mediated through inhibition of cyclin-regulated signaling pathways .
fan induced p27 expression and inhibited cyclin d and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( pcna ) expression in pc3 cells .
increased exposure time to fan caused apoptosis of pc3 cells , which was associated with up-regulation of pro-apoptotic proteins bax and caspase 3 , and down-regulation of anti-apoptotic protein bcl-2 .
furthermore , fan had anti-tumorigenic activity in vivo , including reduction of tumor volume and pro-apoptotic and anti-proliferative effects in a pc3 nude mouse xenograft .
taking all this together , it can be concluded that fan is an effective anti-proliferative agent that modulates cell growth regulators in prostate cancer cells .
objective to study the effects of genistein on the proliferation , apoptosis induction and expression of related gene proteins of human colon cancer cells in vitro and in vivo , and its mechanisms of action .
methods mtt colorimetric assay was used to detect the effects of genistein on the proliferation of human colon adenocarcinoma sw480 cells .
light and transmission electron microscopy were used to study the histological and ultrastructural changes .
flow cytometry was used to determine the effects of genistein on cell cycle and apoptosis .
flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry were used to determine the effects of genistein on apoptosis induction and expression of related gene proteins of colon cancer cells .
results the mtt colorimetric assay showed that genistein inhibited the proliferation of sw480 cells in a dose-dependent and time-dependent manner , and the highest inhibition rate was 60.2% after 80 microg/ml genistein treatment for 72 h .
the light microscopy revealed that many genistein-treated cancer cells were shrunken , disrupted , or showing cytoplasmic vacuolization .
the electron microscopic examination showed cell shrinkage , nuclear fragmentation and pronounced chromatin condensation , sometimes formed crescent chromatin condensation attached to the nuclear membrane .
the results of flow cytometry showed that : after sw480 cells were treated with 0 , 20 , 40 , 80 microg/ml genistein for 48 h , the fi values of pcna were 1.49 +/- 0.02 , 1.28 +/- 0.04 , 1.14 +/- 0.03 , and 0.93 +/- 0.08 ; the fi values of vegf were 1.75 +/- 0.02 , 1.34 +/- 0.06 , 1.32 +/- 0.04 , and 1.23 +/- 0.04 ; the fluorescence index ( fi ) values of p21 were 1.26 +/- 0.05 , 1.36 +/- 0.06 , 1.61 +/- 0.03 , and 1.73 +/- 0.03 , respectively .
there were statistically significant differences between the control group and each treatment group ( p &lt ; 0.05 or p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
the scores of immunohistochemical staining of pcna and vegf proteins were decreased , while p21 increased .
there were statistically significant differences between the control group and each treatment group ( p &lt ; 0.05 or p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
conclusion genistein can inhibit the growth of colon cancer cells via apoptosis induction and cell cycle arrest at g(2)/m phase .
the anti-tumor mechanisms of genistein may be related with the down-regulation of expression of vegf and pcna , and up-regulation of the expression of p21 .
background dendritic cells ( dcs ) isolated from tumor bearing animals or from individuals with solid tumors display functional abnormalities and the dc impairment has emerged as one mechanism for tumor evasion from the control of the immune system .
ductal pancreatic adenocarcinoma ( pdac ) , the most common pancreatic cancer , is recognized as a very aggressive cancer type with a mortality that almost matches the rate of incidence .
methods we examined the systemic influence ductal pancreatic adenocarcinoma ( pdac ) exerted on levels of peripheral blood dcs and inflammatory mediators in comparison to the effects exerted by other pancreatic tumors , chronic pancreatitis , and age-matched controls .
results all groups examined , including pdac , had decreased levels of myeloid dcs ( mdc ) and plasmacytoid dcs ( pdc ) and enhanced apoptosis in these cells as compared to controls .
we found elevated levels of pge2 and cxcl8 in subjects with pdac , and chronic pancreatitis .
levels of these inflammatory factors were in part restored in pdac after tumor resection , whereas the levels of dcs were impaired in the majority of these patients approximately 12 weeks after tumor removal .
our results prove that solid pancreatic tumors , including pdac , systemically affect blood dcs .
the impairments do not seem to be tumor-specific , since similar results were obtained in subjects with chronic pancreatitis .
furthermore , we found that pdac patients with a survival over 2 years had significant higher levels of blood dcs compared to patients with less than one year survival .
conclusions our findings points to the involvement of inflammation in the destruction of the blood mdcs and pdcs .
furthermore , the preservation of the blood dcs compartment in pdac patients seems to benefit their ability to control the disease and survival .
targeting cancer cell metabolism is a new promising strategy to fight cancer .
metformin , a widely used antidiabetic agent , exerts antitumoral and antiproliferative action .
in this study , the addition of metformin to 2-deoxyglucose ( 2dg ) inhibited mitochondrial respiration and glycolysis in prostate cancer cells leading to a severe depletion in atp .
the combination of the two drugs was much more harmful for cancer cells than the treatment with metformin or 2dg alone , leading to 96% inhibition of cell viability in lncap prostate cancer cells .
in contrast , a moderate effect on cell viability was observed in normal prostate epithelial cells .
at the cellular level , the combination of metformin and 2dg induced p53-dependent apoptosis via the energy sensor pathway amp kinase , and the reexpression of a functional p53 in p53-deficient prostate cancer cells restored caspase-3 activity .
in addition to apoptosis , the combination of metformin and 2dg arrested prostate cancer cells in g(2)-m .
this g(2)-m arrest was independent of p53 and correlated with a stronger decrease in cell viability than obtained with either drug .
finally , metformin inhibited 2dg-induced autophagy , decreased beclin 1 expression , and triggered a switch from a survival process to cell death .
our study reinforces the growing interest of metabolic perturbators in cancer therapy and highlights the potential use of the combination of metformin and 2dg as an anticancerous treatment .
objective to analyze histological factors not routinely assessed as potential prognostic factors in renal cell carcinoma , such as tumor necrosis , microscopic vascular invasion , and sinus fat invasion .
materials and methods a retrospective , analytical study was conducted of surgical specimens from 139 patients with localized renal cell carcinoma who underwent nephrectomy from 1993 to 2005 .
tumor necrosis , microscopic vascular invasion , and sinus fat invasion were analyzed and compared to the classical factors : tnm classification , fuhrman grade , and tumor size .
for statistical analysis , variables analyzed were categorized as pt1 , 2 vs pt3 , 4 ; fuhrman grade 1 , 2 vs 3 , 4 ; tumor size &lt ; 7 cm vs &gt;or= 7cm ; tumor necrosis vs no tumor necrosis ; microvascular invasion of sinus fat vs no invasion .
cancer-specific survival probability and disease-free survival were calculated .
a descriptive and analytical statistical analysis was performed using logistic regression for univariate and multivariate analyses .
dependent variables were used to analyze cancer-specific survival rates .
disease-free survival was estimated using a cox regression model and kaplan-meier curves .
results in the univariate analysis , all variables analyzed had a significant influence on death for renal cell carcinoma .
in the multivariate analysis , the variable having the greatest influence was fuhrman grade ( p = 0,032 ) .
the variables significantly influencing disease-free survival , estimated by the cox method , were the pt stage ( p = 0.038 ) and fuhrman grade ( p = 0.048 ) .
conclusions in patients with clinically localized renal cell carcinoma undergoing nephrectomy , pt stage and fuhrman grade are the most important prognostic factors for survival and disease-free survival .
tumor necrosis , microscopic vascular invasion , and sinus fat invasion are prognostic factors for death from renal carcinoma which are associated to tnm classification , fuhrman grade , and tumor size .
background adenoid cystic carcinoma ( acc ) of the breast is a rare tumour ( less than 1 % of all breast carcinomas ) .
the aim of this study was to determine the clinical , histological and immunohistochemical characteristics of these tumours .
methods from the database of the bergoni institute of bordeaux , 30 cases of acc were identified .
the clinical and histological features of these carcinomas were characterized .
an immunohistochemical study was performed with the following antibodies : er , pr , her-2-neu , vimentin , egfr , p63 , sma , ck5/6 , ck8/18 , ck14 , ckit , mib1 , cd44 and cd24 .
results thirty patients were included ( median age 60.7 years ) .
the 10 axillary lymph node dissections and two sentinel lymph procedures were negative .
the architecture was frequently of a mixed type ( 26/30 ) and less often solid ( 4/30 ) .
among the 23 patients for whom follow up was available ( median follow-up : 84 months [ 2-288] ) , there were three local recurrences and three metastatic events .
the tumors with recurrence and metastasis showed more necrosis , a mitotic count greater than 4/10hpf , and in one case perineural infiltration .
all the tumours were er , pr and her-2-neu negative .
morphological and immunophenotypical analysis disclosed in each tumor , a basaloid and a luminal cell population with divergent immunophenotypical patterns .
conclusions the mammary acc is made of two cell types and is of good prognosis despite its triple negative phenotype , similar to the basal-like infiltrating carcinoma nos .
axillary lymph node dissection is not recommended .
good local control by at least large lumpectomy with long-term follow-up is necessary .
objectives to evaluate the impact of the category of unclassified renal cell carcinoma ( urcc ) on survival following nephrectomy .
methods patients with clear cell rcc ( ccrcc , n = 3048 ) and urcc ( n = 38 ) were identified .
patients with urcc were matched 4:1 with ccrcc patients based on year of surgery , symptoms at presentation , tumor size , stage , regional lymph node involvement , metastases , grade , coagulative tumor necrosis , and sarcomatoid differentiation .
survival was estimated using the kaplan-meier method and compared between ccrcc and urcc patients using log-rank tests .
results patients with urcc were more likely to have regional lymph node involvement ( p &lt;.001 ) , higher grade ( p &lt;.001 ) , tumor necrosis ( p &lt;.001 ) , and sarcomatoid differentiation ( p &lt;.001 ) as compared to patients with ccrcc .
overall survival was not significantly different between urcc and ccrcc patients in either the unmatched ( p = .337 ) or matched ( p = .345 ) cohorts .
cancer-specific survival was significantly worse for urcc patients compared with unmatched ccrcc patients ( p = .020 ) .
however , this difference was not statistically significant when the urcc patients were compared with the matched cohort ( p = .688 ) .
distant metastases-free survival was somewhat worse for m0 urcc patients compared with unmatched m0 ccrcc patients ( p = .063 ) , but not in the matched cohort ( p = .788 ) .
conclusions although urcc is more likely to present with advanced clinicopathologic features compared with ccrcc , no statistically significant differences in outcome were noted after adjusting for these features in a matched analysis .
pilocytic astrocytoma is commonly viewed as a benign lesion .
however , disease onset is most prevalent in the first two decades of life , and children are often left with residual or recurrent disease and significant morbidity .
the hedgehog ( hh ) pathway regulates the growth of higher who grade gliomas , and in this study , we have evaluated the activation and operational status of this regulatory pathway in pilocytic astrocytomas .
expression levels of the hh pathway transcriptional target ptch were elevated in 45% of tumor specimens analyzed ( ages 1-22 years ) and correlated inversely with patient age .
evaluation of a tissue array revealed oligodendroglioma-like features , pilomyxoid features , infiltration , and necrosis more commonly in specimens from younger patients ( below the median patient age of 10 years ) .
immunohistochemical staining for the hh pathway components ptch and gli1 and the proliferation marker ki67 demonstrated that patients diagnosed before the age of 10 had higher staining indices than those diagnosed after the age of 10 .
a significant correlation between ki67 and ptch and gli1 staining indices was measured , and 86% of ki67-positive cells also expressed ptch .
the operational status of the hh pathway was confirmed in primary cell culture and could be modulated in a manner consistent with a ligand-dependent mechanism .
taken together , these findings suggest that hh pathway activation is common in pediatric pilocytic astrocytomas and may be associated with younger age at diagnosis and tumor growth .
the blm helicase is a member of the recq dna helicase family and is mutated in the cancer-prone disorder bloom syndrome .
blm plays a role in a number of cellular processes including dna double-strand break repair , holliday junction dissolution , and chromosome segregation .
in drosophila melanogaster , the blm ortholog ( dmblm ) is encoded by the mus309 gene .
to study the role of dmblm in double-strand break repair , we utilized a genetic assay in which a targeted dna double-strand gap is created through excision of a p transposable element .
by recovering and molecularly analyzing individual repair products from wild-type and mus309 male pre-meiotic germline cells , we demonstrated that the dmblm helicase is involved in homologous recombination downstream of strand invasion .
this assay can be adapted to test the roles of numerous dna metabolic factors in dna double-strand gap repair .
objectives to investigate the effects of serotonin and melatonin ( mlt ) on the regulation of malignant growth and the activity of serotonin receptors ( 5htr1a/-1b ) in prostate cancer ( pca ) cell lines .
materials and methods in four pca cell lines ( lncap , 22rv1 , pc3 , du145 ) and two reference cell lines 5htr1a and -1b , relative mrna expression levels were assessed .
different serotonin and mlt receptor agonists and antagonists were used in stimulation and inhibition experiments .
results mrna expression of 5htr1b was higher than that of 5htr1a in all pca cell lines .
serotonin showed a significant growth stimulatory effect in all pca lines .
the 5htr1a and -1b agonists/antagonists did not significantly affect viability .
mlt inhibited viability only in pc3 cells .
similarly , the 5htr1a antagonist induced apoptotic changes in pc3 cells only at 10(-4)m , while the 5htr1b antagonist induced necrosis at 10(-4)m in all cell lines .
cell cycle alterations were seen in pc3 and du145 cells under the influence of the 5htr1a antagonist .
conclusions serotonin receptor antagonists and agonists as well as mlt influence viability and apoptosis of pca cell lines at supraphysiologic concentrations .
in contrast to other reports , our results do not support a regulatory role of serotonin or mlt receptor activation or inhibition in pca growth .
paragangliomas are relatively uncommon neoplasms that arise in adrenal and extra-adrenal paraganglia of the autonomic nervous system .
parasympathetic paraganglioma develop predominantly in the head and neck .
it is exceedingly uncommon to develop a primary intraparathyroid paraganglioma .
there is only a single case report in the english literature .
the information from the single previous case report ( medline 1960-2009 ) was combined with this case report .
our patient was a 69 year old woman who presented with a thyroid gland mass , with extension into the substernal space .
the patient had a history of renal cell carcinoma removed 18 months before .
at surgery , a thyroid lobectomy and a parathyroidectomy were performed .
the parathyroid tissue showed a very well defined zellballen arrangement of paraganglion cells within the parenchyma of the parathyroid gland .
the cells had ample basophilic , granular cytoplasm .
the nuclei were generally round to oval with ' salt-and-pepper ' nuclear chromatin distribution .
there was a richly vascularized stroma .
mitotic figures , necrosis , invasive growth , and profound nuclear pleomorphism were absent .
the neoplastic cells were strongly and diffusely immunoreactive with chromogranin , synaptophysin , cd56 , and focally with cyclin-d1 .
the paraganglioma showed a delicate s-100 protein positive supporting sustentacular framework .
keratin , cd10 , pth , calcitonin and rcc markers were negative .
the patient showed no stigmata of multiple endocrine neoplasia ( men ) and has no paraganglioma in any other anatomic site .
she is alive without any additional findings 12 months after surgery .
isolated paraganglioma within the parathyroid is rare , and should be separated from parathyroid adenoma , hyperplasia or metastatic disease to assure appropriate management .
stannous chloride ( sncl(2) ) and uva induce dna lesions through ros .
the aim of this work was to study the toxicity induced by uva preillumination , followed by sncl(2) treatment .
e. coli ber mutants were used to identify genes which could play a role in dna lesion repair generated by these agents .
the survival assays showed ( i ) the nfo mutant was the most sensitive to sncl(2) ; ( ii ) lethal synergistic effect was observed after uva pre-illumination , plus sncl(2) incubation , the nfo mutant being the most sensitive ; ( iii ) wild type and nfo mutants , transformed with pbw21 plasmid ( nfo(+) ) had their survival increased following treatments .
the alkaline agarose gel electrophoresis assays pointed that ( i ) uva induced dna breaks and fpg mutant was the most sensitive ; ( ii ) sncl(2)-induced dna strand breaks were higher than those from uva and nfo mutant had the slowest repair kinetics ; ( iii ) uva + sncl(2) promoted an increase in dna breaks than sncl(2) and , again , nfo mutant displayed the slowest repair kinetics .
in summary , nfo protects e. coli cells against damage induced by sncl(2) and uva + sncl(2) .
purpose tamoxifen , a selective oestrogen receptor modulator ( serm ) , and brivanib alaninate , a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( vegfr-2 ) inhibitor , are two target specific agents that result in a substantial decrease in tumour growth when given alone .
tamoxifen activates serm stimulated breast and endometrial tumour growth .
tamoxifen and brivanib alaninate have side-effects that can affect therapeutic outcomes .
the primary goal of the current study was to evaluate the therapeutic effects of lower doses of both agents when given in combination to mice with serm sensitive , oestrogen stimulated tumour xenografts ( mcf-7 e2 tumours ) .
experiments were conducted to evaluate the response of serm stimulated breast ( mcf-7 tam , mcf-7 ral ) and endometrial tumours ( enca 101 ) to demonstrate the activity of brivanib alaninate in serm resistant models .
experimental design in the current study , tumour xenografts were minced and bi-transplanted into the mammary fat pads of athymic , ovariectomised mice .
preliminary experiments were conducted to determine an effective oral dose of tamoxifen and brivanib alaninate that had minimal effect on tumour growth .
doses of 125 microg of tamoxifen and 0.05 mg/g of brivanib alaninate were evaluated .
an experiment was designed to evaluate the effect of the two agents together when started at the time of tumour implantation .
an additional experiment was done in which tumours were already established and then treated , to obtain enough tumour tissue for molecular analysis .
results brivanib alaninate was effective at inhibiting tumour growth in serm sensitive ( mcf-7 e2 ) and serm stimulated ( enca 101 , mcf-7 ral , mcf-7 tam ) models .
the effect of the low dose drug combination as an anti-tumour strategy for serm sensitive ( mcf-7 e2 ) in early treatment was as effective as higher doses of either drug used alone .
in established tumours , the combination is successful at decreasing tumour growth , while neither agent alone is effective .
molecular analysis revealed a decreased phosphorylation of vegfr-2 in tumours that were treated with brivanib alaninate and an increase in vegfa transcription to compensate for the blockade of vegfr-2 by increasing the transcription of vegfa .
tamoxifen increases the phosphorylation of vegfr-2 and this effect is abrogated by brivanib alaninate .
there was also increased necrosis in tumours treated with brivanib alaninate .
conclusion historically , tamoxifen has a role in blocking angiogenesis as well as the blockade of the er .
tamoxifen and a low dose of an angiogenesis inhibitor , brivanib alaninate , can potentially be combined not only to maximise therapeutic efficacy but also to retard serm resistant tumour growth .
exposure to benzo[a]pyrene ( bap ) can induce inflammatory skin diseases and skin cancer , which are both associated to oxidative stress .
bap is known to bind with high specificity to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( ahr ) , modifying the expression of cyp1a1 , involved both in cancer and inflammation .
while the current knowledge is based on murine skin and cell culture data , in this study human healthy skin has been treated with 5mum bap in conditions simulating occupational and environmental exposure .
ahr and cyp1a1 expression was evaluated by western blotting , which revealed their presence even in control untreated skin ; both enzyme and receptor increased more than twofold after exposure to bap .
ahr expression level was lower than cyp1a1 in basal conditions and following induction .
oxidative stress was evaluated in terms of mtt reduction , protein peroxidation and reactive oxygen species ( ros ) formation .
a significant increase in ros and carbonyl compound production , as well as reduced tissue viability have been determined by bap .
the results of this experiment indicate that bap , an ahr agonist , can significantly increase receptor and cyp1a1 expression and induce oxidative stress in human skin , confirming the involvement of this pathway in the pathogenesis of tissue damage due to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons .
cantharidin is an active constituent of mylabris , a traditional chinese medicine .
it is a potent and selective inhibitor of protein phosphatase 2a ( pp2a ) that plays an important role in control of cell cycle , apoptosis , and cell-fate determination .
owing to its antitumor activity , cantharidin has been frequently used in clinical practice .
in the present study , we investigated the therapeutic potential of cantharidin in pancreatic cancer .
cantharidin efficiently inhibited the growth of pancreatic cancer cells , but presented a much lighter toxicity effect against normal pancreatic duct cells .
it caused g2/m cell-cycle arrest that was accompanied by the down-regulation of cyclin-dependent kinase 1 ( cdk1 ) and up-regulation of p21 expression .
it induced apoptosis and elevated the expressions of pro-apoptotic factors tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , tnf-related apoptosis inducing receptor 1 ( trailr1 ) , trailr2 , bad , bak , and bid , and decreased the expression of anti-apoptotic bcl-2 .
activation of caspase-8 and caspase-9 suggested that both extrinsic and intrinsic pathways are involved in the induction of apoptosis .
interestingly , unlike previous studies on other cancer cells , we found that the inhibitory role of cantharidin is independent of oxidative stress in pancreatic cancer cells .
mitogen-activated protein kinases ( mapks ) , including erk , jnk , and p38 , were activated after treatment with cantharidin .
inhibition of jnk , but not erk or p38 , alleviated the cytotoxity effect of cantharidin , suggesting cantharidin exerted its anticancer effect through the jnk-dependent way .
hence , in addition to being an attractive candidate compound with therapeutic potential , cantharidin also highlighted the possibility of using pp2a as a therapeutic target for pancreatic cancer treatment .
 reactive  or activated stroma characterizes many malignancies including breast cancers .
recently , we isolated a reactive mouse mammary gland stromal cell line called bj3z .
these cells express alpha-smooth muscle actin and stromal cell-derived factor 1 ( sdf-1 ) and are tumorigenic when injected into mice .
here we show that , in vivo , bj3z cells influence the angiogenesis and proliferation of xenografted estrogen receptor ( er)-positive mcf-7 human breast cancer cell-derived solid tumors .
the growth-promoting effects of bj3z cells are equivalent to those of estradiol ( e(2) ) .
bj3z cells also increase the proliferation of normal mouse mammary luminal cells adjacent to tumors .
in vitro , bj3z cells reorganize and increase the proliferation of cocultured malignant mcf-7 and normal human breast mcf10a cells grown as organoids in three-dimensional culture .
the effects of bj3z cells on mcf-7 cells are equivalent to those of e(2) .
in contrast , bj3z cells do not alter the growth of highly aggressive er-negative mda-mb-231 human breast cancer cells .
we show that bj3z cells secrete vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) .
the growth of mcf-7 organoids induced by bj3z can be inhibited by antagonists of vegf and sdf-1 .
conversely , recombinant vegf stimulates the proliferation of mcf-7 , but not mda-mb-231 , organoids .
we conclude that , in addition to angiogenesis , vegf released by activated stroma increases the growth of er-positive malignant epithelial cells and of adjacent normal epithelium .
because activated stroma can substitute for e(2) and fosters hormone-independent growth of er-positive tumors , we suggest that breast cancers exhibiting intrinsic hormone resistance may respond to antiangiogenic therapies .
resveratrol is a naturally occurring polyphenol that exhibits pleiotropic health beneficial effects , including anti-inflammatory , cardio-protective , and cancer-protective activities .
it is recognized as one of the more promising natural molecules in the prevention and treatment of chronic inflammatory and autoimmune disorders .
ulcerative colitis is an idiopathic , chronic inflammatory disease of the colon associated with a high colon cancer risk .
here , we used a dextran sulfate sodium ( dss ) mouse model of colitis , which resembles human ulcerative colitis pathology .
resveratrol mixed in food ameliorates dss-induced colitis in mice in a dose-dependent manner .
resveratrol significantly improves inflammation score , downregulates the percentage of neutrophils in the mesenteric lymph nodes and lamina propria , and modulates cd3(+) t cells that express tumor necrosis factor-alpha and ifn-gamma .
markers of inflammation and inflammatory stress ( p53 and p53-phospho-ser(15) ) are also downregulated by resveratrol .
because chronic colitis drives colon cancer risk , we carried out experiments to determine the chemopreventive properties of resveratrol .
tumor incidence is reduced from 80% in mice treated with azoxymethane ( aom ) + dss to 20% in mice treated with aom + dss + resveratrol ( 300 ppm ) .
tumor multiplicity also decreased with resveratrol treatment .
aom + dss-treated mice had 2.4 +/- 0.7 tumors per animal compared with aom + dss + 300 ppm resveratrol , which had 0.2 +/- 0.13 tumors per animal .
the current study indicates that resveratrol is a useful , nontoxic complementary and alternative strategy to abate colitis and potentially colon cancer associated with colitis .
background the current staging system provides an anatomical classification of lung tumors ; its secondary purpose is to allow the prognostic stratification of patients into homogeneous groups after surgery .
in this work , intratumoral perineural invasion , lymphatic and blood vessel invasion together with the necrosis content of the tumor exclusive of the non-small cell cancer staging system were studied .
methods during a 4-year period , 152 patients operated for non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) at our hospital were analyzed .
mean age of patients was 55.7 +/- 10.1 years .
results overall 5-year survival was 42.2 % .
mediastinal lymph node involvement , tumor size , incomplete resection , pneumonectomy , presence of necrosis and perineural invasion were significant prognosticators ( p = 0.03 , 0.04 , 0.0001 , 0.046 , 0.0246 , &lt ; 0.0001 , respectively ) .
multivariate analysis revealed that n status , perineural invasion , and the presence of necrosis were independent prognostic factors ( p = 0.006 , p = 0.001 , p = 0.001 , respectively ) .
patients who had stage i tumor with necrosis and perineural invasion had a lower survival rate than those with stage iiia tumor without these histopathological features ( p = 0.04 ) .
the presence of these histopathological characteristics in stage iiia patients was a sign of a poorer prognosis ( p = 0.0001 ) .
conclusions perineural invasion and the presence of necrosis independently indicated a dismal prognosis and their prognostic power is comparable to those of the tnm classification .
these factors could be candidates for better survival stratification and the indicators of the need for adjuvant therapy in early stage lung cancer patients .
it has been shown that injecting a suspension of ifn--secreting tumor cells results in their rejection .
this effect has been attributed to ifn- preventing tumor stroma formation but not to a direct effect on the cancer cells .
however , it is not known , which influence ifn- has on tumors with an established stroma .
to address this question , the plasmacytoma cell line j558l was transduced with a vector allowing doxycycline-inducible ifn- gene expression .
after the injection of the tumor cells into mice , ifn- was induced at different time points .
tumors did not grow when inducing ifn- immediately after tumor cell inoculation , while approximately half of the tumors were rejected when ifn- was induced in early established tumors within 2 weeks .
induction of ifn- 2-3 weeks after tumor cell inoculation was less efficient ( 0-17% rejection ) .
ifn- induction in established tumors led to a reduction of cd146(+) endothelial cells and massive necrosis .
together , we show that vascularized tumors can be rejected by local ifn- expression , but that rejection of established tumors was less efficient over time .
this suggests that transplanted tumors became less susceptible to local ifn- treatment the better they are established .
palmitoylation is required for the activities of several cancer-associated proteins , making the palmitoyl acyltransferase ( pat ) enzymes that catalyze these reactions potential targets for anticancer therapeutics .
in this study , we sought to identify and characterize a human pat with activity toward n-terminally myristoylated and palmitoylated proteins .
nih/3t3 cells were stably transfected with vectors containing no insert , wild type human dhhc20 , or a serine-substituted dhhs20 mutant .
compared with control cells , cells overexpressing wild-type dhhc20 displayed an increase in palmitoylation activity toward a peptide that mimics the n-terminus of myristoylated and palmitoylated proteins , but had no change in activity toward a peptide that mimics the c-terminus of farnesylated and palmitoylated proteins .
cells expressing dhhs20 had no significant change in activity toward either peptide .
overexpression of dhhc20 also caused phenotypic changes consistent with cellular transformation , including colony formation in soft agar , decreased contact inhibition of growth , and increased proliferation under low-serum conditions .
quantitative polymerase chain reaction analyses of human tissues demonstrated that dhhc20 is expressed in a tissue-specific manner , and is overexpressed in several types of human tumors , including ovarian , breast and prostate .
overall , these results demonstrate that dhhc20 is a human n-terminal-myristoyl-directed pat involved in cellular transformation , that may play a role in cancer .
purpose pyruvate kinase isoenzyme m2 ( pkm2 ) is a key enzyme in aerobic glycolysis ; inhibition of pkm2 leads to the tumor growth inhibition .
in this study , the effects of combined treatment with cisplatin ( ddp ) and a plasmid that expresses a short hairpin rna ( shrna ) targeting pkm2 on the growth of human a549 xenograft lung cancer model were investigated .
methods the expression of pkm2 in a549 cells was determined by immunofluorescence .
pkm2 expression levels were evaluated by western blot analysis .
in a human a549 lung cancer xenograft model , the effects of treatment with shrna , with or without cisplatin , on tumor volume were determined .
apoptosis and cell proliferation status were examined to determine the mechanisms of tumor growth inhibition .
results expression of shrna targeting pkm2 resulted in inhibition of pkm2 expression in a549 cells .
in the lung cancer xenograft model , average tumor volume in the group treated with both cisplatin and shrna was statistically lower than those of other groups ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
the levels of apoptotic cells were significantly higher in samples from animals in the combined treatment group than those from untreated animals ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
the cell proliferation rate , as determined by counting cells labeled with an anti-phospho-histone h3 , a marker for mitosis , was lower in samples from animals treated with both cisplatin and shrna than in samples from other groups ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
conclusions use of rna interfering ( rnai ) targeting pkm2 significantly inhibited tumor growth when combined with cisplatin in a human a549 lung cancer xenograft model .
the enhanced antitumor activity of the combined treatment compared to treatment with shrna alone may result in part from increased induction of apoptosis and augmented inhibition of cancer cell proliferation .
certain hexavalent chromium ( cr(vi) ) compounds are well established occupational respiratory tract carcinogens .
however , despite extensive studies , the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying cr(vi)-induced lung cancer remain poorly understood .
in fact , the models used were often suboptimal and yielded conflicting results that were heavily dependent upon the system and experimental conditions employed .
here , we investigated the effects of chronic subcytotoxic and mildly cytotoxic ( 0.1-2 microm ) cr(vi) exposures on cultures of human bronchial epithelial cells , the main targets of cr(vi) carcinogenicity .
our studies with the nontumorigenic beas-2b cell line suggest that relatively short exposures ( h ) to sublethal cr(vi) doses ( 0.1-1 microm ) may render these cells less sensitive to contact inhibition .
we have also observed a reduced sensitivity to cr(vi)-induced apoptosis shortly after the beginning of exposure to a mildly cytotoxic cr(vi) dose ( 2 microm ) .
further studies are needed to determine whether these two phenotypes are involved in the cr(vi)-induced carcinogenic process .
additionally , evidence gathered in this study strongly points to a cr(vi) interference with cell adhesion to the substratum and with cell-cell interactions .
finally , by chronically exposing beas-2b cells to mildly cytotoxic cr(vi) doses ( 1 and 2 microm ) , we were able to induce changes in cell morphology and pattern of growth characteristic of an early phase of pre-malignant progression .
to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying altered t cell response in renal cell carcinoma ( rcc ) patients , we compared autologous and allogeneic cd8(+) t cell responses against rcc line from rcc patients and their hla-matched donors , using mixed lymphocyte/tumor cell cultures ( mltcs ) .
in addition , we analyzed the expression of molecules associated with cell cycle regulation .
autologous mltc responder cd8(+) t cells showed cytotoxic activity against rcc cell lines ; however the analysis of the distribution of cd8(+) t-cell subsets revealed that allogenic counterparts mediate superior antitumor efficacy .
in rcc patients , a decreased proliferative response to tumor , associated with defects in jak3/stat5/6 expression that led to increased p27kip1 expression and alterations in the cell cycle , was observed .
these data define a molecular pathway involved in cell cycle regulation that is associated with the dysfunction of tumor-specific cd8(+) effector cells .
if validated , this may define a therapeutic target in the setting of patients with rcc .
this research aims to give a new insight to the relationship between host local immune response and the biological behaviour of the tumor by evaluating of intratumoral natural killer ( nk ) cells and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnfalpha ) expressions in oral squamous cell carcinomas .
new paraffin sections of the deepest parts of the 46 cases of oral squamous cell carcinomas were immunohistochemically treated by cd57 , selected as nk cell indicator , and tnfalpha monoclonal antibodies .
the tumors were graded according to histopathologic grading scores of invasive margins and categorized into 2 groups as " good " and " poor " prognostic groups .
fifteen cases , from which could be obtained full clinical data , were clinically staged and because of the scarcity of the cases in each group were divided , again , two groups as group 1 : stage i+stage ii and group 2 : stage iii+stage iv .
the expression levels of cd57 and tnfalpha were evaluated according to histopathologic grading groups and clinical staging groups .
the results showed that the density of cd57+cells ( nk cells ) was statistically lower in tumors graded as poor prognostic group compared to the cases in good prognostic group .
on the contrary , expression level of tnfalpha was statistically higher in poor prognostic group .
these findings suggested that increased secretion of tnfalpha in the tumors , which show high invasive potential , may be one of the facilitating factors for tumor invasion and be responsible from suppression of nk cells .
withdrawal of nk cells in the high invasive tumor areas also reminds the necessity of certain shared genetic rearrangements in tumor cells for getting protected from nk cell attacks and moving ahead within the extracellular matrix .
we report that all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) in combination with zoledronic acid has strong synergistic cytotoxic and apoptotic effects against human hormone- and drug-refractory prostate cancer cells , pc-3 and du-145 , in a time- and dose-dependent manner .
we further investigated the effect of the combination treatment on the apoptotic process by both oligoarray and protein array analysis in du-145 cells , in which the drug combination shows much more strong synergistic effects , as compared to pc-3 cells .
moreover , we have also performed real time-pcr array analysis to validate oligoarray results .
we demonstrated that the combination of atra and zoledronic acid is a strong inducer of apoptotic related cell death in human androgen-and drug refractory prostate cancer cells du-145 , at either transcriptional or translational levels .
while expression of proapoptotic genes such as tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily ( tnfrsf ) , bad , bax , fas , fadd are induced with the exposure of the combination , expression of antiapoptotic genes or proteins such as members of inhibitor apoptosis family ( iaps ) , mcl-1 , ltbr , p53 and bcl-2 are reduced .
because this novel combination treatment has fewer side effects than is generally the case with conventional cytotoxic agents , this regimen may be a good option for treatment of elderly prostate cancer patients .
the transcription factor nf-kappab is constitutively active in pancreatic adenocarcinoma .
here we explore the contribution of nf-kappab to the malignant phenotype of pancreatic cancer cells in addition to its anti-apoptotic role .
block of nf-kappab signalling by non-destructible ikappabalpha rendered cells resistant to tgf-beta-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) .
in contrast , nf-kappab activation by tnf-alpha or expression of constitutively active ikk2 induced an emt-phenotype with up-regulation of vimentin and zeb1 , and down-regulation of e-cadherin .
emt could also be induced in cells with defective tgf-beta signalling .
functional assays demonstrated reduced or strongly enhanced migration and invasion upon nf-kappab inhibition or activation , respectively .
dendritic cells ( dcs ) are key regulators of innate and acquired immunity .
the maturation of dcs is directed by signal transduction events downstream of toll-like receptors ( tlrs ) and other pattern recognition receptors .
here , we demonstrate that , in mouse dcs , tlr agonists stimulate a profound metabolic transition to aerobic glycolysis , similar to the warburg metabolism displayed by cancer cells .
this metabolic switch depends on the phosphatidyl inositol 3'-kinase/akt pathway , is antagonized by the adenosine monophosphate ( amp)-activated protein kinase ( ampk ) , and is required for dc maturation .
the metabolic switch induced by dc activation is antagonized by the antiinflammatory cytokine interleukin-10 .
our data pinpoint tlr-mediated metabolic conversion as essential for dc maturation and function and reveal it as a potential target for intervention in the control of excessive inflammation and inappropriately regulated immune responses .
we have investigated the possibility that photoexcited titanium dioxide ( tio2 ) could inhibit the growth of malignant cells .
we studied the anti-glioma effects of nano-tio2 excited with ultraviolet a ( uva ) irradiation both in vitro and in vivo .
transmission electron microscopy demonstrated that glioma cells take up tio2 by phagocytosis , and vital staining revealed that tio2 alone has no effect on glioma cell proliferation .
however , if tio2 was combined with uva irradiation the proliferation rate was decreased significantly compared to controls ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
rt-pcr suggested that tio2 induction of glioma cell apoptosis is associated with changes in the expression of genes encoding bcl-2 family members .
we then investigated the in vivo antitumor effects of combined tio2 plus uva treatment of established glioma tumors .
tio2 plus uva led to pronounced areas of necrosis , elevated indices of apoptosis , delayed tumor growth , and increased survival compared with the tio2-alone control group ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
log-rank survival analysis showed that median survival duration was prolonged ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
these findings suggest that nano-tio2 based photodynamic therapy has potential in the treatment of glioma .
objective to study the effect of zilongjin ( zlj , a composite chinese drug ) on proliferation and apoptosis of human breast carcinoma cell line mcf-7 .
methods mcf-7 cells were randomly divided into four groups depending on the culture solution used , the control group , cultured with 1640 medium not contained zlj ; and the three zjl groups cultured with medium contained low ( 1.5 mg/ml ) , moderate ( 3 mg/ml ) and high ( 6 mg/ml ) dosage of zlj crude drug respectively .
the changes of cell proliferation were assessed by cell growth curve assay and methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium ( mtt ) assay .
and the cell apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry , hoechst 33342 staining and dna ladder assay .
results compared with that in the normal control , the counts of cells in the three zlj groups were decreased significantly ( p&lt;0.05 ) at such time point as 24 , 48 , 72 , 96 , 120 , and 144 h .
furthermore , apart from the comparison of the growth inhibition rate between the low and moderate dosage group at 24 and 72 h which were found to be no significant difference ( p&gt;0.05 ) , the comparison f that among the three zlj groups appeared to be significant difference ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
the inhibitory effect of zlj on cell proliferation of mcf-7 was time- and dose-dependent ; it could retard cells in g0/g1 cell phase ; apoptosis of mcf-7 cell was induced by moderate and high dosage of zlj with revealing of apoptotic body and dna ladder formation .
conclusion zlj shows cell proliferation inhibitory and apoptosis inducing effects on human breast cancer cell line mcf-7 , and thus to realize its anti-tumor action .
chronic inflammation , increased reactivity to self-antigens and incidences of cancer are hallmarks of aging .
however , the underlying mechanisms are not well understood .
age-associated alterations in the dna either due to oxidative damage , defects in dna repair or epigenetic modifications such as methylation that lead to mutations and changes in the expression of genes are thought to be partially responsible .
here we report that epigenetic modifications in aged dna also increase its immunogenicity rendering it more reactive to innate immune system cells such as the dendritic cells .
we observed increased upregulation of costimulatory molecules as well as enhanced secretion of ifn-alpha from dendritic cells in response to dna from aged donors as compared to dna from young donors when it was delivered intracellularly via lipofectamine .
investigations into the mechanisms revealed that dna from aged subjects is not degraded , neither is it more damaged compared to dna from young subjects .
however , there is significantly decreased global level of methylation suggesting that age-associated hypomethylation of the dna may be the cause of its increased immunogenicity .
increased immunogenicity of self dna may thus be another mechanism that may contribute to the increase in age-associated chronic inflammation , autoimmunity and cancer .
tumor necrosis factor related apoptosis-inducing ligand ( trail ) and agonistic anti-dr4/trail-r1 and anti-dr5/trail-r2 antibodies are currently under clinical investigation for treatment of different malignancies .
trail activates dr4 and dr5 and thereby triggers apoptotic and non-apoptotic signaling pathways , but possible different roles of dr4 or dr5 in these responses has poorly been addressed so far .
in the present work , we analyzed cell viability , disc formation as well as il-8 and nf-kappab activation side by side in responses to trail and agonistic antibodies against dr4 ( mapatumumab ) and against dr5 ( lexatumumab ) in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cells .
we found that all three reagents are able to activate cell death and pro-inflammatory signaling .
death-inducing signaling complex ( disc ) analysis revealed that mapatumumab and lexatumumab induce formation of homocomplexes of either dr4 or dr5 , whereas trail additionally stimulated the formation of heterocomplexes of both receptors .
notably , blocking of receptors using dr4- and dr5-specific fab fragments indicated that trail exerted its function predominantly via dr4 .
interestingly , inhibition of pkc by goe6983 enabled dr5 to trigger apoptotic signaling in response to trail and also strongly enhanced lexatumumab-mediated cell death .
our results suggest the existence of mechanisms that silence dr5 for trail- but not for agonistic-antibody treatment .
ataxia telangiectasia mutated ( atm ) kinase is a central player in cellular response to dna damage .
phosphorylation of the histone h2ax by atm is required for the accumulation of repair proteins at the sites of double-strand breaks .
recently , it was reported that the histone acetyltransferase tat interactive protein-60 ( ipp60 ) is required to acetylate atm prior to its activation .
the ruvb-like proteins tip48 and tip49 are known to be necessary for the assembly and functional activity of the tip60 acetyltransferase complex .
in the present communication , we investigated the requirements of iip48 and iip49 for atm activation by monitoring the cell cycle distribution and h2ax phosphorylation after irradiation of iip48- and iip49-depleted cells .
we found that neither the cell cycle norgammay-h2ax were affected in iip48- and iip49-silenced cells , suggesting that the iip60 chromatin modification complex is not engaged in dna damage signaling upstream of atm .
background autotaxin ( atx ) is an extracellular lysophospholipase d that generates lysophosphatidic acid ( lpa ) from lysophosphatidylcholine ( lpc ) .
both atx and lpa have been shown to be involved in many cancers .
however , the functional role of atx and the regulation of atx expression in human hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) remain elusive .
results in this study , atx expression was evaluated in tissues from 38 human hcc and 10 normal control subjects .
atx was detected mainly in tumor cells within tissue sections and its over-expression in hcc was specifically correlated with inflammation and liver cirrhosis .
in addition , atx expression was examined in normal human hepatocytes and liver cancer cell lines .
hepatoma hep3b and huh7 cells displayed stronger atx expression than hepatoblastoma hepg2 cells and normal hepatocytes did .
proinflammtory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) promoted atx expression and secretion selectively in hep3b and huh7 cells , which led to a corresponding increase in lysophospholipase-d activity .
moreover , we explored the mechanism governing the expression of atx in hepatoma cells and established a critical role of nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappab ) in basal and tnf-alpha induced atx expression .
further study showed that secreted enzymatically active atx stimulated hep3b cell invasion .
conclusions this report highlights for the first time the clinical and biological evidence for the involvement of atx in human hcc .
our observation that links the tnf-alpha/nf-kappab axis and the atx-lpa signaling pathway suggests that atx is likely playing an important role in inflammation related liver tumorigenesis .
background paclitaxel and pirarubicin exhibit cytotoxic and antitumor activities .
however , little is known about the apoptosis-inducing effects of paclitaxel and pirarubicin on human osteosarcoma mg-63 cells .
methods the effects of paclitaxel and pirarubicin on cell cycle arrest and apoptosis were studied in mg-63 cells using flow cytometry .
pcna , bcl-2 , bax , cyclin d1 and cyclin e expression was assessed by western blotting .
results paclitaxel and pirarubicin caused g2/m and g0/g1 cell cycle arrest in mg-63 cells , respectively .
apoptosis of mg-63 cells mediated by paclitaxel was dependent on treatment duration .
interestingly , in cells treated with pirarubicin , apoptosis was related to treatment duration at concentrations of 10(2)-10(3) nm , whereas the effect of treatment duration was less marked at concentrations &gt;10(4)-10(5) nm .
furthermore , paclitaxel and pirarubicin suppressed the expression of pcna , cyclin d1 , cyclin e and bcl-2 , and increased bax expression .
conclusion these results suggest that the g2/m or g0/g1 cell cycle arrest and apoptosis induced by paclitaxel and pirarubicin are bcl-2/bax dependent , suggesting favorable effects of combination therapy with paclitaxel and pirarubicin in the treatment of osteosarcoma .
epidemiologic studies have examined the association between fruit and vegetable ( f&amp;v ) consumption and the risk of cancer .
several cancer-preventive mechanisms have been proposed , such as antioxidant properties and modulation of biotransformation enzyme activities ; both may be associated with reducing dna damage and hence the mutation rate .
we investigated , in a randomized , controlled , crossover feeding trial , the effect of 10 servings/day of botanically defined f&amp;v for 2 wk on endogenous dna damage ; resistance to gamma -irradiation damage ; and dna repair capacity in lymphocytes , measured by the comet assay .
we also explored the association between the ugt1a1*28 polymorphism and serum bilirubin concentrations and dna damage and repair measures .
healthy men ( n = 11 ) and women ( n = 17 ) , age 20 to 40 yr , provided blood samples at the end of each feeding period .
overall , f&amp;v did not affect dna damage and repair measures in lymphocytes .
the number of ugt1a1*28 alleles was inversely associated with sensitivity to gamma -irradiation exposure and dna repair capacity , but a biological mechanism to explain this association is unclear .
a larger sample size is needed to investigate the association between bilirubin concentrations and endogenous dna damage .
with inconsistent findings in the literature , additional dietary intervention studies on the effect of f&amp;v on dna damage and repair are needed .
objective as we previously demonstrated , the inhibitory effect of iodine on thyroid cell growth is mediated by iodolactones , especially 6-iodo-5-hydroxy-eicosatrienoic acid ( delta-iodolactone ) .
in this communication we compare the effect of iodide , molecular iodine and delta-iodolactone on growth inhibition and apoptosis on three human thyroid carcinoma cell lines ( b-cpap cells , ftc-133 cells and 8505c cells ) as well as on human breast cancer cells ( mcf 7 ) .
methods thyroid carcinoma cells were cultured in dulbecco's modified eagle's medium ( dmem ) and mcf 7 cells in rowswell park memorial institute ( rpmi ) culture medium , both containing 10% ( v/v ) fetal calf serum ( fcs ) , until they were confluent .
around 2000 cells were then distributed in 12-well plates and grown for 48 h in either dmem ( thyroid cancer cells ) or in rpmi medium ( mcf 7 cells ) both containing 5% fcs .
thereafter , different concentrations of iodide , iodine or delta-iodolactone were added for 24 h .
growth rate was estimated by cell counting in a coulter counter adapted for epithelial cells .
apoptosis was determined by a mitochondrial potential assay .
results the growth rate of b-cpap cells was unaffected by iodide , but was reduced by high concentreations of molecular iodine ( 100 and 500 microm ) .
however , delta-iodolactone significantly reduced cell proliferation already with low concentrations ( 5 microm and 10 microm ) and further in a dose-dependent manner up to 82% .
ftc-133 and 8505c cells were unaffected by iodide , iodine or delta-iodolactone .
in contrast , in mcf 7 cells , molecular iodine ( 100 microm ) inhibited growth from 100% to 83% but delta-iodolactone ( 1 , 5 and 10 microm ) dose-dependently decreased growth rate from 100% to 82% and 62% , respectively .
the inhibition of growth was through apoptosis , and not necrosis , as the amount of apoptotic cells corresponded to the growth inhibition .
conclusion delta-iotaodolactone seems to be the main iodocompound which can inhibit growth and induce apoptosis in b-cpap cells as well as in mcf 7 breast cancer cells .
nkx3.1 is a homeodomain protein that functions as a dosage sensitive prostate-specific transcription factor .
diminished nkx3.1 expression is associated with prostate epithelial cell proliferation in vitro and with increasing gleason grade in patient samples .
mouse nkx3.1 also functions as a negative regulator of prostate cell growth in prostate cancer models .
identifying biological and environmental factors that modulate nkx3.1 accumulation is therefore central to efforts aimed at elucidating prostate growth control mechanisms .
to determine the effect of inflammation on nxk3.1 accumulation , bacterial prostatitis was induced by intraurethral inoculation of a uropathogenic e. coli strain in mice .
nkx3.1 expression was profoundly reduced in infected prostate lobes and correlated with increased expression of a proliferation marker .
androgen receptor levels were also reduced in concert with nkx3.1 , and a marked increase in the basal cell marker p63 was observed .
analyses of the inflammatory infiltrate revealed a classic acute inflammatory response that attained characteristics of a chronic state within fourteen days postinoculation .
comparison of the four prostate lobes revealed clear differences in the extent of inflammation .
these data demonstrate that acute inflammation in response to a bacterial agent in the prostate is associated with a significant diminution in the level of a key regulator of prostate cell proliferation .
these observations provide a plausible mechanism whereby prostate inflammation may establish a local environment conducive to epithelial cell growth .
objective to clarify the relationship between the expression of pol beta and dna damage /repair induced by benzo(a)pyrene ( bap ) .
methods pol beta wild-type cells ( pol beta +/+ ) , pol beta null cells ( pol beta -/- ) and wild-type pol beta overexpressed cells ( pol beta oe ) which had the same genetic background were studied .
firstly , rt-pcr and western blot targeting to pol beta were carried out to measure the expression of pol beta mrna and protein in above three kinds of cells , then mtt test and single cell gel electrophoresis ( comet assay ) were used to compare cell viability and dna damage/repair of the three kinds of cells when exposed to bap .
results there was pol beta deletion in pol beta -/- cells and the level of pol beta mrna and protein in pol beta oe cells was twice higher than that in pol beta +/+ cells .
bap could induce dna damage and reduce cell viability , when compared with pol beta +/+ cells , ic50 of pol beta -/- cells was remarkably lower , dna was prone to damage and more difficult to be repaired , on the other hand , ic50 of pol beta oe cells was obviously higher and the damage effect on dna was weaker and prone to be repaired .
conclusion pol beta played an important role in the repair of dna damage induced by bap , deficiency of pol beta could decrease the dna repair capability of cells , and overexpression of pol beta could help cells response to dna damage and protect cells from death in a certain degree .
the tumor suppressor lkb1 is inactivated in 90% of peutz-jeghers cancer syndrome , 30-40% of non-small cell lung carcinoma , and a variety of other cancers , indicating the loss of lkb1 activity is a critical step in oncogenesis .
however , current understanding of lkb1 function is largely limited to the results from cancer cells , and how lkb1 inactivation initiates malignant transformation in normal cells remains unclear .
here we ablated endogenous expression of lkb1 in two normal cell lines : human embryonic kidney 293t cells ( hek-293t cells ) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( huvecs ) by lkb1-specific short hairpin rnas .
downregulation of endogenous lkb1 lead to a facilitated g(1)/s transition , accompanied by a concomitant increase in rb phosphorylation ( ser(807/811) ) .
furthermore , reduced expression of p53 and p16 was observed in lkb1 ablated cells , while no differences were detected for cyclin d1 and cyclin e. these results jointly suggest that endogenous lkb1 knockdown accelerates cell cycle progression through g(1)/s checkpoint in hek-293t cells and huvecs , which is at least in part , mediated by decline of p53 and p16 pathways .
our findings provided a plausible mechanism by which loss of lkb1 expression in normal cells contributes to the formation of malignancies .
although contact inhibition is a fundamental process for multicellular organisms , how proliferation is inhibited at high cellular densities remains poorly characterized .
here we show that 4e-bp1 , one major repressor of cap-dependent translation , plays a critical role in density-mediated cell cycle arrest. 4e-bp1 promoter is activated and 4e-bp1 protein amount increases as cells reach confluence .
conversely , a much less marked density-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation is observed upon 4e-bp1 silencing .
we further show that at high density , progression through the g phase of the cell cycle is faster and cyclin d1 protein is induced in different cell types where 4e-bp1 has been either downregulated ( stable shrna expression or transient sirna transfection ) or removed ( knock-out ) .
thus 4e-bp1 appears as an important mediator of contact inhibition .
the development and progression of esophageal cancer is associated with multiple alterations in the genome , including loss of the tumor suppressor phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted from the chromosome 10 ( pten ) gene .
the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of adenovirus-mediated mmac/pten expression on the growth and survival of human esophageal cancer cells in vitro and in vivo .
we found that compared to control cells , overexpression of pten significantly suppressed growth and induced apoptosis in esophageal cancer cell lines eca-109 and te-1 via downregulation of bcl-2 expression and changes in cell-cycle progression .
adenovirus pten also inhibited the growth of subcutaneous tumor xenografts by significantly reducing tumor size in vivo .
thus our results confirm the proposed functional role of mmac/pten as a regulator of esophageal cancer progression in vivo and in vitro .
pten might be an important biological marker and potential therapeutic target in the treatment of human esophageal cancer .
objective to study the effect of anandamide ( aea ) on necrosis in hepg2 cells and to explore the role of aea in progression of liver cancer .
methods localization of the fatty acid hydrolytic enzyme ( faah ) , cannabinoid receptors 1(cb1) and cannabinoid receptors 2 ( cb2 ) proteins was detected in l02 and hepg2 cells using immunofluorescence .
l02 and hepg2 cells were treated with different concentrations of aea and methyl-beta-cyclodextrin , and the rates of cells necrosis were examined by pi stain .
meanwhile , the expression levels of faah , cb1 and cb2 receptor proteins , as well as p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase ( p-p38 mapk ) and c-jun-nh2-terminal kinase ( p-jnk ) proteins , were analyzed by western blot .
results the faah , cb1 and cb2 receptor proteins were observed both in cytoplasm and on membrane in l02 and hepg2 cells .
the expression level of faah protein was higher in hepg2 than in l02 cells .
the expression level of cb1 receptor protein was very low in both l02 and hepg2 cells .
the expression level of cb2 receptor protein was high in both l02 and hepg2 cells .
aea treatment induced necrosis in hepg2 cells but not in l02 cells .
methyl-beta-cyclodextrin treatment prevented necrosis in hepg2 cells ( t = 3.702 ; 5.274 ; 3.503 , p less than 0.05 ) .
the expression patterns of faah , cb1 and cb2 receptor protein in l02 and hepg2 cells were confirmed by western blot , which were consistent with the immunofluorescence results .
aea treatment increased the levels of p-p38mapk and p-jnk proteins in a dose-dependent manner in hepg2 cells ( f = 11.908 ; 26.054 , p less than 0.05 ) and the increase can be partially by prevented by mcd ( t = 2.801 ; t = 12.829 , p less than 0.05 ) .
conclusion aea treatment induces necrosis in hepg2 cells via cb1 and cb2 receptors and lipid rafts .
background elevated levels of air pollution are associated with increased risk of lung cancer .
particulate matter ( pm ) contains transition metals that may potentiate neoplastic development through the induction of oxidative stress and inflammation , a lung cancer risk factor .
vanadium pentoxide ( v2o5 ) is a component of pm derived from fuel combustion as well as a source of occupational exposure in humans .
in the current investigation we examined the influence of genetic background on susceptibility to v2o5-induced inflammation and evaluated whether v2o5 functions as a tumor promoter using a 2-stage ( initiation-promotion ) model of pulmonary neoplasia in mice .
results a/j , balb/cj ( balb ) , and c57bl/6j ( b6 ) mice were treated either with the initiator 3-methylcholanthrene ( mca ; 10 microg/g ; i.p. ) or corn oil followed by 5 weekly aspirations of v2o5 or pbs and pulmonary tumors were enumerated 20 weeks following mca treatment .
susceptibility to v2o5-induced pulmonary inflammation was assessed in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( balf ) , and chemokines , transcription factor activity , and mapk signaling were quantified in lung homogenates .
we found that treatment of animals with mca followed by v2o5 promoted lung tumors in both a/j ( 10.3 +/- 0.9 tumors/mouse ) and balb ( 2.2 +/- 0.36 ) mice significantly above that observed with mca/pbs or v2o5 alone ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
no tumors were observed in the b6 mice in any of the experimental groups .
mice sensitive to tumor promotion by v2o5 were also found to be more susceptible to v2o5-induced pulmonary inflammation and hyperpermeability ( a/j&gt;balb&gt;b6 ) .
differential strain responses in inflammation were positively associated with elevated levels of the chemokines kc and mcp-1 , higher nfkappab and c-fos binding activity , as well as sustained erk1/2 activation in lung tissue .
conclusions in this study we demonstrate that v2o5 , an occupational and environmentally relevant metal oxide , functions as an in vivo lung tumor promoter among different inbred strains of mice .
further , we identified a positive relationship between tumor promotion and susceptibility to v2o5-induced pulmonary inflammation .
these findings suggest that repeated exposures to v2o5 containing particles may augment lung carcinogenesis in susceptible individuals through oxidative stress mediated pathways .
the mechanisms of formation of sister chromatid exchanges ( sces ) and chromosome aberrations following inhibition of poly(adp-ribose) polymerase by 3-aminobenzamide were studied in chinese hamster ovary cell lines deficient in different repair pathways .
the results confirm earlier findings that ( a ) the ' spontaneous ' sces are formed due to the incorporated brdu in the dna , ( b ) ' spontaneous ' and induced sces originate from different mechanisms , and ( c ) sces and chromatid exchanges are formed by different pathways .
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( pah ) such as dibenzo[a,l]pyrene ( dbp ) are wide-spread environmental pollutants most probably mutagenic and carcinogenic to humans .
detailed data on the cytogenetic effects of anti-11,12-dihydroxy-13,14-epoxy-11,12,13,14-tetrahydrodibenzo[a,l]pyrene ( dbpde ) in mammalian cells are not available in the literature .
the aim of this study is to elucidate the mechanisms involved in the induction of chromosomal aberrations and sister chromatid exchanges ( sces ) by dbpde in mammalian cells .
in order to achieve this a parental ( aa8 ) and different dna repair-deficient chinese hamster ovary cell lines such as uv4 , uv5 , uv61 ( nucleotide excision repair , ner ) , em9 ( base excision repair , ber ) , irs1sf ( homologous recombination repair , hrr ) and v3-3 ( non-homologous end joining , nhej ) were used .
the most sensitive cell lines for dbpde-induced chromosome aberrations were em9 and irs1sf , while em9 and v3-3 cell lines were the most sensitive in terms of sces induction .
it can be suggested that the ber pathway plays an important role in the repair of lesions induced by dbpde , affecting both chromosomal aberrations and sces induction .
moreover , the hrr pathway seems to play a role in cellular resistance to dbpde mainly in terms of chromosomal aberration induction while the nhej pathway takes part affecting only the induction of sces .
bulky dna adducts are considered a potential biomarker of cancer risk .
in this study , the association between various lifestyle , environmental , and genetic factors and the levels of bulky dna adducts in peripheral leukocytes was examined in a study group nested within a population-based prospective danish cohort .
at enrollment , blood samples were collected and information on lifestyle , including dietary and smoking habits , obtained .
previously , bulky dna adducts were measured in 245 individuals who developed lung cancer and 255 control members of the cohort .
of these 500 individuals , data on 375 individuals were included in this study , excluding 125 cases , which developed lung cancer within the first 3 yr after blood sampling .
bulky dna adduct levels were measured by 32p-postlabeling technique and polymorphisms in carcinogen metabolism and dna repair genes were determined .
potential predictors of bulky dna adduct levels were analyzed by univariate and multivariate regression analyses .
women tended to have higher adduct levels than men .
living in central copenhagen and surface darkness of fried meat and fish were associated with quantitative higher adduct levels .
no significant associations were found between dietary factors or smoking and dna adduct levels .
further , the results showed no prominent associations between any of 12 genetic polymorphisms and adduct levels .
overall , our study showed only few associations between dietary , environmental , and genetic factors and levels of bulky dna adducts measured in peripheral leukocytes in a general danish population .
background and aim the importance of glycolysis in cancer cells is well documented .
the effects of inhibiting glycolysis using metabolic inhibitors iodoacetate ( iaa ) , an inhibitor of gapdhase , and 3-bromopyruvate ( 3bp ) , an inhibitor of hexokinase-ii , on survival and signaling of pancreatic cancer cells ( panc-1 ) were investigated .
materials and methods cellular survival was evaluated using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide ( mtt ) assay .
lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) assay was used to analyze the induced necrosis and protein levels were evaluated using western blot analysis .
results the results show that the inhibitors lowered cellular survival and increased cellular necrosis .
mitogenic signaling pathways were affected by 3bp but not by iaa .
conclusion we conclude that there may be a cross-talk between signaling pathways and glycolysis in regulating pancreatic cancer cell survival and signaling .
thus , a combination of agents that inhibit both energy production and cell signaling may provide a novel and effective approach to target pancreatic cancer effectively .
thyroid-like low-grade nasopharyngeal papillary adenocarcinoma ( lgnppa ) is extremely rare ; only four cases have been reported .
herein are presented the case reports of two japanese male patients with thyroid-like lgnppa .
macroscopically , these tumors were pedunculated polypoid masses on the roof of the nasopharynx .
microscopically , they were characterized by papillary and glandular epithelial proliferation .
the papillae were complex and tightly packed with hyalinized fibrovascular cores and lined by columnar and pseudostratified cells with intervening spindle-shaped cells .
both cell types had round to oval vesicular nuclei with tiny nucleoli and mildly eosinophilic cytoplasm .
mitotic figures were not evident and necrosis was not observed .
psammoma bodies were seen focally in one of the patients .
transition from normal surface epithelium to tumor cells was identified in both cases .
on immunohistochemistry the tumor cells were positive for cytokeratin ( ck)7 , ck19 , thyroid transcription factor-1 ( ttf-1 ) and vimentin .
they were negative for ck5/6 , ck20 , thyroglobulin , s-100 protein and cd15 .
in situ hybridization for ebv was negative .
nasopharyngeal tumors with similar morphological appearance should be examined for ttf-1 immunoreactivity , and patients should be clinically followed to determine the course of this unusual disease and the significance of ttf-1 expression .
we studied the effect of the immune system on two differentially aggressive melanomas developing in mice on conditional deletion of the ink4a/arf tumor suppressor gene , with concomitant expression of oncogene h-ras(g12v) and a natural cancer-germline tumor antigen ( ta ) .
 slow progressor  melanomas contained no activated t lymphocytes ( tl ) .
in contrast , " aggressive " melanomas were infiltrated by activated tls lacking effector molecules and expressing high levels of pd-1 , indicating an exhausted phenotype .
aggressive melanomas were also infiltrated by immature myeloid cells ( imc ) .
infiltration was associated with local inflammation and systemic th2/th17-oriented chronic inflammation that seemed to impair further activation of tls , as tumor-specific t cells adoptively transferred into mice bearing aggressive melanomas were poorly activated and failed to infiltrate the melanoma .
this immunosuppression also led to the incapacity of these mice to reject inoculated ta-positive tumors , in contrast to slow-progressing melanoma-bearing mice , which were responsive .
to test the role of adaptive immunity in tumor progression , we induced melanomas in immunodeficient ragko compound mice .
these mice developed aggressive but not slow-progressing melanomas at a higher frequency and with a shorter latency than immunocompetent mice .
immunodeficient mice also developed abnormal inflammation and infiltration of imcs in a manner similar to immunocompetent mice , indicating that this phenotype was not dependent on adaptive immunity .
therefore , tumor-intrinsic factors distinguishing the two melanoma types control the initiation of inflammation , which was independent of adaptive immunity .
the latter delayed development of aggressive melanomas but was overridden by inflammation .
polycylic aromatic hydrocarbons ( pahs ) are ubiquitous contaminants in the marine environment .
their toxicity is mainly linked to the ability of marine species to biotransform them into reactive metabolites .
pahs are thus often detected at trace levels in animal tissues .
for biomonitoring purposes , this findings have two main consequences , ( i ) the determination of the pah tissue concentration is not suitable for the evaluation of individual exposure to pahs ( ii ) it can explain sometimes the lack of correlations obtained with relevant markers of toxicity such as genotoxicity biomarkers .
the aim of the present study was to better investigate the link between pah exposure and genotoxicity in marine flatfish .
during a laboratory experiment , juvenile soles were exposed for four weeks to a mixture of three pahs , namely benzo[a]pyrene , fluoranthene and pyrene , followed by one week of depuration .
fish were exposed via the trophic route to a daily pah concentration of 120 g/g food .
fish were sampled at different time points .
the bioavailability and the biotransformation of pahs were assessed by the measurement of biliary metabolites using a sensitive uplc ms/ms method .
the 7-ethoxyresorufine-o-deethylase was also measured in liver subcellular fractions as a biomarker of phase i biotransformation activities .
genotoxicity was assessed in parallel by the measurement of dna strand breaks in fish erythrocytes by the alkaline comet assay .
during this study , the high amount of pah metabolites produced in sole demonstrated the bioavailability of pahs and their biotransformation by fish enzymes .
a positive correlation was observed between the level of hydroxylated pah metabolites and genotoxicity as measured by the alkaline comet assay .
oxazaphosphorines are a class of dna alkylating agents .
the aim of the present study was to compare the possible influence of three new generation oxazaphosphorines , d-17272 ( mafosfamide cyclohexylamine salt ) , d-18864 ( 4-hydro-peroxy-cyclophosphamide ) , and d-19575 ( glufosfamide , beta-d-glucose-isophosphoramide mustard ) on dna damage induction in the human histiocytic lymphoma u937 cells .
the flow cytometry apo-brdu assay , based on the tunel method , was used for the in situ detection of dna strand breaks .
after exposure of u937 cells to the oxazaphosphorines , the patterns of temporary changes in the frequency of tunel positive u937 cells , expressing dna breakage , were determined .
the effects of the oxazaphosphorines on u937 cells were dependent on the agent tested and its dose , and the time intervals after the drug application .
the different potential of d-17272 , d-18864 and d-19575 to induce dna strand breakage in the human histiocytic lymphoma u937 cells was shown .
background/aims adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder is a highly malignant neoplasm. p16 is a tumor suppressor gene protein , which is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor that regulates the g1-s phase of the cell cycle .
the purpose of the present study was to investigate the expression of p16 in gallbladder carcinoma and its precancerous conditions and to examine the relationship between p16 expression and clinicopathological parameters .
methodology formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tissue sections from 20 cases of normal gallbladder , 20 cases of chronic cholecystitis , 20 cases of gallbladder adenoma , 20 cases of dysplasia , and 58 cases of adenocarcinoma were examined .
the expression of p16 was evaluated by immunohistochemical analysis .
results in normal gallbladder , no expression of p16 was found .
in chronic cholecystitis , expression of p16 was not found .
in gallbladder adenomas , expression of p16 was found in 20% ( 4/20 ) .
in low grade dyspalsias , expression of p16 was not found .
in high grade dysplasias , p16 expression was present in 45.0% ( 9/20 ) .
in gallbladder adenocarcinomas , p16 expression was found in 27.6% ( 16/58 ) .
expression of p16 correlated significantly with histologic grade ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
no correlation was found between p16 expression and age , gender , tumor size , gross type , location , vascular invasion , lymph node metastasis , and tnm stage , respectively .
conclusions p16 protein overexpression is an early and relatively common event in carcinogenesis of gallbladder carcinoma .
expression of p16 protein is absent in normal or chronic cholecystitis .
expression of p16 may be an ancillary diagnostic marker of gallbladder carcinoma and its precancerous conditions .
background/aims the use of chemotherapy in hepatocellular carcinoma is still controversial .
the aim of this study was to investigate whether the combined use of epirubicin and progesterone has a synergistic effect on cell proliferation and apoptosis in hepg2 cells .
methodology different concentrations of epirubicin ( 0.1 microg/ml , 0.25 microg/ml and 0.5microg/ml ) or progesterone ( 12.5 microm , 25 microm and 50 microm ) were added to hepg2 cells either alone or in combinations consisting of different concentrations of the two .
their effects on hepg2 cells were studied by ( 1 ) xtt assay for analysis of cell proliferation , ( 2 ) 3h-thymidine incorporation for dna synthesis , ( 3 ) annexin v-fitc/ propidium iodide ( pi ) flowcytometery for cell apoptosis , ( 4 ) flowcytometry for cell cycle distributions , and ( 5 ) reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction for expression of cell cycle modulator , cyclin d1 .
results 50 microm progesterone increased both the cytotoxic and apoptotic effects of 0.1 microg/ml epirubicin on hepg2 cells at 48 hr culture due to 50 microm progesterone accumulated cells in s phase of the cell cycle and subsequently reduced cyclin d1 expression .
these effects on hepg2 cells induced by this combination were comparable to those induced by 0.5 microg/ml epirubicin alone .
conclusions in vitro , progesterone can increase the cytotoxicity and apoptosis induced by epirubicin on hepg2 cells .
among several types of dna lesions , the dna double strand breaks ( dsbs ) are one of the most deleterious and harmful .
mammalian cells mount a coordinated response to dsbs with the aim of appropriately repair the dna damage .
indeed , failure of the dna damage response ( ddr ) can lead to the development of cancer-prone genetic diseases .
the identification and development of drugs targeting proteins involved in the ddr is even more investigated , as it gives the possibility to specifically target cancer cells .
indeed , the administration of dna repair inhibitors could be combined with chemo- and radiotherapy , thus improving the eradication of tumor cells .
here , we provide an overview about dsbs damage response , focusing on the role of the dsbs repair mechanisms , of chromatin modifications , and of the cancer susceptibility gene brca1 which plays a multifunctional role in controlling genome integrity .
moreover , the most investigated dsbs enzyme inhibitors tested as potential therapeutic agents for anti-cancer therapy are reported .
objectives the aim of this study is to examine the expression of mcm-2 and conventional proliferation marker ki-67 in breast carcinoma by stereologic technique and to compare it with various clinicopathologic parameters .
methods the expression of mcm-2 and ki-67 on paraffin-embedded tumor tissue sections of patients with invasive breast carcinoma was analyzed immunohistochemically .
stereologic method was used for evaluation of the percentage of positively stained tumor cells .
results significant positive correlation was found between the expression of mcm-2 and that of ki-67 ( r = 0.74 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
mcm-2 and ki-67 expression was significantly associated with histologic grade ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) , and negative correlation was observed between mcm-2 or ki-67 expression and estrogen status ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
no significant association was observed between mcm-2 or ki-67 expression and patient age , tumor size , lymph node status , clinical stage and menopausal status .
conclusion our results suggest that mcm-2 expression is significantly associated with histologic grade of breast carcinoma and with cell proliferation capacity ( ki-67 labelling index ) .
additional studies are required using the stereologic method to compare and understand the utility of ki-67 and mcm-2 expression in invasive breast carcinoma ( tab. 1 , fig. 4 , ref. 34 ) .
full text ( free , pdf ) www.bmj.sk .
recent surveys indicate that pi intake has increased steadily as pi-containing foods have increased .
our previous study demonstrated that high dietary pi strongly stimulated lung tumorigeneis .
in order to answer the issue whether low pi may be chemopreventive , we examined the effects of low pi on lung cancer .
eighteen 5-wk-old male k-ras(la1) lung cancer model mice were randomly allocated to 2 groups .
one group was fed a normal diet ( 0.5% pi ) and other group was fed low pi ( 0.1% pi ) diet for 4 wk .
lung cancer development was evaluated by histopathological examination , western blot , kinase assay , and immunohistochemistry .
low pi increased the expression of sodium-dependent phosphate co-transporter 2b , and activated akt signal with decreased pten expression in the lungs of k-ras(la1) mice .
low pi increased the akt/mtor-mediated protein translation through upregulating the phosphorylation of p70s6k and 4e-bp1 .
in addition , low pi stimulated cell cycling as evidenced by altered cell cycle regulators such as cyclin d1 and d3 .
finally , low pi increased lung tumorigenesis in k-ras(la1) mice compared to the normal diet group .
our results clearly demonstrated that low pi also promoted lung tumorigenesis , thus suggesting that an appropriate intake of dietary pi may be critical for lung cancer prevention as well as treatment .
caveolin-1 ( -/- ) null stromal cells are a novel genetic model for cancer-associated fibroblasts and myofibroblasts .
here , we used an unbiased informatics analysis of transcriptional gene profiling to show that cav-1 ( -/- ) bone-marrow derived stromal cells bear a striking resemblance to the activated tumor stroma of human breast cancers .
more specifically , the transcriptional profiles of cav-1 ( -/- ) stromal cells were most closely related to the primary tumor stroma of breast cancer patients that had undergone lymph-node ( ln ) metastasis .
this is consistent with previous morphological data demonstrating that a loss of stromal cav-1 protein ( by immuno-histochemical staining in the fibroblast compartment ) is significantly associated with increased ln-metastasis .
we also provide evidence that the tumor stroma of human breast cancers shows a transcriptional shift towards oxidative stress , dna damage/repair , inflammation , hypoxia , and aerobic glycolysis , consistent with the " reverse warburg effect " .
finally , the tumor stroma of " metastasis-prone " breast cancer patients was most closely related to the transcriptional profiles derived from the brains of patients with alzheimer's disease .
this suggests that certain fundamental biological processes are common to both an activated tumor stroma and neuro-degenerative stress .
these processes may include oxidative stress , no over-production ( peroxynitrite formation ) , inflammation , hypoxia , and mitochondrial dysfunction , which are thought to occur in alzheimer?s disease pathology .
thus , a loss of cav-1 expression in cancer-associated myofibroblasts may be a protein biomarker for oxidative stress , aerobic glycolysis , and inflammation , driving the " reverse warburg effect " in the tumor micro-environment and cancer cell metastasis .
background cdc4/fbxw7 , encoding a ubiquitin ligase , maps to 4q32 and has been implicated as a tumor suppressor gene and therapeutic target in many tumor types .
mutations in colonic adenomas , and the frequent losses on 4q described in gastric cancer prompt speculation about the role of cdc4/fbxw7 in gastric carcinogenesis .
methods we assessed the role of cdc4/fbxw7 in gastric cancer , through loss of heterozygosity ( loh ) and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification ( mlpa ) on 47 flow-sorted gastric carcinomas including early-onset gastric cancers ( eogc ) and xenografted conventional gastric carcinomas .
ploidy analysis was carried out on 39 eogcs and immunohistochemistry of cdc4/fbxw7 and its substrates c-myc , c-jun , notch and cyclin e was performed on 204 gastric carcinomas using tissue microarrays ( tmas ) .
sequence analysis of cdc4/fbxw7 was carried out on gastric carcinoma cell lines and xenografts .
results loss of heterozygosity of cdc4/fbxw7 occurred in 32% of eogcs , and correlated with loss of expression in 26% .
loss of expression was frequent in both eogc and conventional gastric cancers .
no cdc4/fbxw7 mutations were found and loss of cdc4/fbxw7 did not correlate with ploidy status .
there was a significant correlation between loss of cdc4/fbxw7 expression and upregulation of c-myc .
conclusion loss of cdc4/fbxw7 appears to play a role in both eogc and conventional gastric carcinogenesis , and c-myc overexpression is likely to be an important oncogenic consequence of cdc4/fbxw7 loss .
xrcc4 , in association with dna ligase iv , is thought to play a critical role in the ligation of two dna ends in dna double-strand break ( dsb ) repair through non-homologous end-joining ( nhej ) pathway .
in the present study , we captured radiation-induced chromatin-recruitment of xrcc4 by biochemical fractionation using detergent nonidet p-40 .
a subpopulation of xrcc4 changed into a form that is resistant to the extraction with 0.5% nonidet p-40-containing buffer after irradiation .
this form of xrcc4 was liberated by micrococcal nuclease treatment , indicating that it had been tethered to chromatin dna .
this chromatin-recruitment of xrcc4 could be seen immediately ( &lt ; 0.1 hr ) after irradiation and remained up to 4 hr after 20 gy irradiation .
it was seen even after irradiation of small doses , i.e. , 2 gy , but the residence of xrcc4 on chromatin was very transient after 2 gy irradiation , returning to near normal level in 0.2-0.5 hr after irradiation .
the chromatin-bound xrcc4 represented only approximately 1% of total xrcc4 molecules even after 20 gy irradiation and the quantitative analysis using purified protein as the reference suggested that only a few xrcc4-dna ligase iv complexes were recruited to each dna end .
we further show that the chromatin-recruitment of xrcc4 was not attenuated by wortmannin , an inhibitor of dna-pk , or sirna-mediated knockdown of the dna-pk catalytic subunit ( dna-pkcs ) , indicating that this process does not require dna-pkcs .
these results would provide us with useful experimental tools and important insights to understand the dna repair process through nhej pathway .
objective to study the clinicopathologic features , immunophenotype and ultrastructural features of sinonasal inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors ( imt ) .
methods the clinical and histologic features of 5 cases of sinonasal imt were reviewed .
immunohistochemical study for vimentin , msa , sma , calponin , h-caldesmon , desmin , alk , fibronectin , ck , s-100 and ki-67 was carried out .
ultrastructural examination was also performed in two of the cases .
results the patients age ranged from 28 to 62 years ( mean = 43 years ) .
the male-to-female ratio was 2:3 .
the clinical presentation included nasal obstruction , nasal discharge , nasal bleeding , facial pain , facial swelling , toothache and tear overflow .
all of the 5 patients suffered from disease relapses ; and 4 of them had recurrences for more than 5 times .
one patient had lymph node metastasis and 3 patients died of the disease .
histologically , the tumor cells were arranged in interlacing fascicles and sometimes haphazard in fashion .
they were spindly in shape , cytoplasm eosinophilic with mild nuclear atypia and a low mitotic activity .
the intervening stroma was myxoid in appearance accompanied by lymphocyte and plasma cell infiltration , abundant blood vessels and focal collagenized areas .
in 3 of the recurrent cases , the tumor cells displayed increased nuclear atypia and mitotic activity ( average about 5 to 6 per 10 high-power fields ) , accompanied by patchy necrosis , less inflammatory cell infiltration and focal sarcomatous changes .
immunohistochemical study showed that the tumor cells were diffusely positive for vimentin .
sma , msa , calponin and fibronectin were variably expressed .
desmin was weakly positive in 1 case .
the staining for h-caldesmon , alk , s-100 and ck was negative .
the ki-67 proliferation index increased with tumor recurrences .
electron microscopy revealed abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum and dense body formation in the cytoplasm .
there were an increased amount of collagen fibers in the stroma .
conclusions imt rarely occurs in nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses .
the tumor is prone to local invasion and recurrences , with subsequent progression to frank malignancy and distant metastasis , resulting in high mortality and poor prognosis .
complete surgical resection remains the main modality of treatment .
recent research has shown that the na(+)/k(+)-atpase alpha1 subunit is a novel anti-cancer target , which plays pivotal roles in malignant cell ion transport , metabolism , migration and signal transduction .
the purpose of the present study was to investigate the anti-cancer effects of ouabain and na(+)/k(+)-atpase alpha1 small interfering ribonucleic acid ( sirna ) on hepg2 cell proliferation , apoptosis and cell cycle , and to explore the molecular mechanisms .
the expression of na(+)/k(+)-atpase alpha1 subunit in human hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) , normal liver tissues and human hcc line ( hepg2 , smmc-7721 and bel-7402 ) has been investigated .
using the ouabain and na(+)/k(+)-atpase alpha1 subunit sirna , which target the na(+)/k(+)-atpase , we have evaluated the effects of inhibiting na(+)/k(+)-atpase alpha1 in human hepg2 cells with respect to cell proliferation , morphology , cell cycle , impact on intracellular ca2++ , reactive oxygen species ( ros ) concentration , and correlated gene expression level on messenger ribonucleic acid ( mrna ) and protein .
our data showed that the expression na(+)/k(+)-atpase alpha1 subunit in hcc tissues is higher than that in normal liver tissues .
ouabain and na(+)/k(+)-atpase alpha1 sirna could inhibit hepg2 cell proliferation .
ouabain could induce hepg2 cell apoptosis and generate s phase arrest , and sirna could enhance the anti-cancer effect of ouabain that induced hepg2 cells apoptosis via an intracellular ca(2+) and ros increase-mediated , and generated cell cycle s phase arresting by decreasing the cyclina1/cyclin-dependent kinase 2 ( cdk2)/proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( pcna ) complex product and increasing the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1a ( p21(cip1) ) .
we believe that targeting of the na(+)/k(+)-atpase alpha1 subunit in human hcc cells could provide new sight into the treatment of hcc .
squamous cell carcinoma ( scc ) is the most frequent cancer in organ transplant recipients ( otrs ) .
the immune system plays a major role in the fight against scc , however , little is known about the local inflammatory response in scc at all .
we analyzed quantity and quality of the perineoplastic inflammatory scc microenvironment in immunocompetent patients and immmunosuppressed otrs .
rna expression profile of scc patients was analyzed for 8 different sets of genes relating to th1 versus th2 response using gene set enrichment analysis .
scc from immunocompetent patients and otrs were analyzed by real-time polymerase chain reactions for cd4 , cd8 , tbet , gata-3 , foxp3 , rorc , ifn-gamma , il-4 , tgf-beta , il-10 , and il-17a mrna expression .
immunohistochemistry was carried out in scc for cd3 , cd4 , cd8 , and foxp3 expression .
considerable inflammation was seen in both patient groups .
scc in immunocompetent patients and otrs was associated with a mixed th1 and th2 gene expression signature .
cd4(+) mrna was diminished in immunosuppression .
skin adjacent to scc in otrs showed th2 expression pattern as compared with immunocompetent patients .
t-bet and ifn-gamma mrna expression were decreased in the otr group .
although th17-weighted inflammation was unchanged , il-17a mrna level was markedly decreased with immunosuppression .
regulatory t cells , characterized by fox-p3 and tgf-beta mrna level , were decreased in otrs .
our findings support the hypothesis that nontumor-bearing skin adjacent to scc in otrs is not necessarily normal and that the local microenvironment may contribute to a field effect contributing to higher recurrence rates and more aggressive behavior observed in these patients .
oral squamous cell carcinoma ( oscc ) is the most common malignant tumor in the oral and maxillofacial region .
the mechanism of carcinogenesis of oscc is still unclear .
based on the previous cell line , hioec-b(a)p-96 ( hb96 ) , which we obtained by hpv16 e6/e7-immortalized human oral epithelial cells ( hioec ) and benzo(a)pyrene inducement , we prepared a new hb-second generation cancer cell line ( hb-2 ) by continuous passage .
its characteristics such as morphology , proliferation activity , karyotype , and tumorigenesis were studied .
the hb-2 cells displayed uncontrolled cell division and lost contact inhibition leading to cell overlap .
cells were polygonal and unevenly shaped , with an increased nucleus versus plasma ratio .
increased proliferative activity was confirmed by mtt assays .
the tumorigenicity was confirmed by tumor growth experiments in nude mice .
therefore , the hb-2 and hb96 cell lines are useful tools to study the mechanism of carcinogenesis of oscc in vitro for future genomic and proteomic analyses .
regulation of adaptive immunity by innate immune cells is widely accepted .
conversely , adaptive immune cells can also regulate cells of the innate immune system .
here , we report for the first time the essential role of b cells in regulating macrophage ( m ) phenotype .
in vitro b cell/m co-culture experiments together with experiments in transgenic mice models for b-cell deficiency or overexpression showed b1 cells to polarize m to a distinct phenotype .
this was characterized by downregulated tnf- , il-1 and ccl3 , but upregulated il-10 upon lps stimulation ; constitutive expression of m2 m markers ( e.g .
ym1 , fizz1 ) and overexpression of trif-dependent cytokines ( ifn- , ccl5 ) .
mechanistically , this phenotype was linked to a defective nf-b activation , but a functional trif/stat1 pathway .
b1-cell-derived il-10 was found to be instrumental in the polarization of these m .
finally , in vivo relevance of b1-cell-induced m polarization was confirmed using the b16 melanoma tumor model where adoptive transfer of b1 cells induced an m2 polarization of tumor-associated m .
collectively , our results define a new mechanism of m polarization wherein b1 cells play a key role in driving m to a unique , but m2-biased phenotype .
future studies along these lines may lead to targeting of b1 cells to regulate m response in inflammation and cancer .
the effect of polychlorinated biphenyls ( pcbs ) on vero cell proliferation was investigated , with the attempts to assess the possible hormetic dose-response and to compare their structure-dependent toxicity .
both pcb congeners revealed low doses stimulation in our experiment .
however , significant cytotoxicity was only observed in pcb 52 concentrations larger than 0.1 microg ml(-1) , while there was no significant inhibition in pcb 77-treated cells at concentrations selected .
furthermore , the time-dependent cytotoxic trends were different .
the comparison between pcb 52 and pcb 77 indicated that the cytotoxic mechanisms involved in coplanar or non-coplanar pcb congener exposure were different , and this difference might be associated with individual genotoxicity and the release of contact inhibition , respectively .
abstract the use of immunotherapeutics in melanoma has received much attention , and recent advances to further characterize the regulatory components of the immune system and the importance of co-stimulatory molecules have opened a new area for clinical investigation .
cytotoxic t lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 ( ctla-4 ) serves as a negative regulator of immunity .
recent trials administering fully human anti-ctla-4 monoclonal antibodies to melanoma patients have demonstrated clinically meaningful responses .
treatment with ctla-4 blocking antibodies , however , is not without potential toxicities .
autoimmune side-effects , the most common being colitis-associated diarrhea , are frequently associated with clinical responses .
in efforts to build upon prior vaccination efforts as well as attempt to offer patients clinically meaningful immune responses with a ctla-4 blockade but without significant toxicities , we conducted a clinical trial in patients who previously received autologous tumor cells engineered to secrete granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor ( gvax ; cell genesys , south san francisco , ca , usa ) with periodic infusions of ctla-4 blocking antibodies .
this sequential treatment resulted in clinically significant anti-tumor immunity without grade 3 or 4 toxicity in most patients .
pathological analyses following treatment of pre-existing tumors revealed a linear correlation between tumor necrosis and the ratio of intra-tumoral cd8+ effector cells to foxp3+ regulatory cells ( t(regs) ) .
effective anti-tumor immunity and serious autoimmunity can be disassociated .
further targeting of anti-tumor t(regs)in combinatorial therapy approaches may be a rich avenue of future investigation .
pam3csk4 , a synthetic tlr2 ligand , has been shown to expand cd4+ regulatory t cells ( treg cells ) .
less is known about the function of cd8+ treg cells than about the function of cd4+ treg cells generated during allergen-specific immunotherapy ( it ) .
this study investigated whether dermatophagoides pteronyssinus-specific it could expand the cd8+cd25+foxp3+ treg population and whether pam3csk4 could enhance the treg population .
pbmcs were isolated from healthy control subjects and from mite-sensitive asthmatic patients during it at three specific times : before it and 6 mo and 1 y after the maximum-tolerated dose .
this study was performed without a placebo-controlled group .
d. pteronyssinus-specific it induced a significant increase in cd8+foxp3+ treg cells expressing intracellular il-10 and granzyme b. costimulation of pbmcs with pam3csk4 and d. pteronyssinus 2 expanded the cd8+cd25+foxp3+ treg population and inhibited d. pteronyssinus 2-induced il-4 production .
pam3csk4-treated cd8+cd25+ treg cells directly suppressed cd4+ t cell proliferation by cell-contact inhibition .
tunel revealed that cd8+cd25+ treg cells , but not cd4+cd25+ treg cells , directly induced cd4+cd45rohi+ apoptosis .
our results provide direct evidence that pam3csk4 induces an immunomodulatory effect by inducing cd8+ treg cells ; therefore , it may be a good adjuvant for the treatment of mite allergies .
objectives toxicity caused by pharmacological and chemical substances , including carbon tetrachloride ( ccl(4) ) , is a major pathological factor for liver injury .
therefore , strategies to prevent toxicity are needed for maintaining a healthy liver .
this study was designed to determine whether recombinant bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor ( rbpti ) , a non-specific serine protease inhibitor , prevents ccl(4)-induced liver injury in mice .
methods mice were treated with ccl(4) in the presence or absence of co-treatment with rbpti .
liver sections were prepared for histopathological assessment .
liver function was evaluated by detecting serum levels of alanine aminotransferase ( alt ) and aspartate aminotransferase ( ast ) and liver index .
liver oxidative stress and inflammation were examined by detecting the liver malondialdehyde level and glutathione and superoxide dismutase activity , and serum tumour necrosis factor-alpha level , respectively .
key findings ccl(4) induced hepatocyte necrosis , inflammatory cell infiltration and fatty degeneration , which were ameliorated by co-treatment with rbpti in a concentration-dependent manner .
furthermore , rbpti prevented ccl(4)-induced disruption of liver function .
importantly , rbpti reduced ccl(4)-induced liver oxidative stress response and pro-inflammatory cytokine production .
conclusions these results indicated that rbpti exerted a protective effect on ccl(4)-induced liver injury in mice .
thus , rbpti may have potential application for prevention of liver injury induced by metabolism of drugs and toxic substances .
introduction necrosis at the tumor center is a common feature of aggressive breast cancers and has been associated with poor prognosis .
it is commonly identified by means of invasive histopathology , which often correlates with morbidity and potential tumor cell dissemination , and limits the reconstruction of the whole necrotic domain .
in this study we hypothesized that non covalent association to serum albumin ( sa ) and covalent binding to ligands for tumor-abundant cell receptors should synergistically drive selective accumulation and prolonged retention of imaging and therapeutic agents in breast tumor necrotic domains enabling in vivo identification , imaging and possibly treatment of such tumors .
methods cyclo-arg-gly-asp-d-phe-lys ( c(rgdfk) ) were conjugated to bacteriochlorophyll-derivatives ( bchl-ds ) , previously developed as photodynamic agents , fluorescent probes and metal chelators in our lab .
the c(rgdfk) component drives ligation to alphavbeta3 integrin receptors over-expressed by tumor cells and neo-vessels , and the bchl-d component associates to sa in a non-covalent manner .
stl-6014 , a c(rgdfk)-bchl-d representative , was i.v. injected to cd-1 , nude female mice bearing necrotic and non-necrotic human mda-mb-231-rfp breast cancer tumors .
the fluorescence signals of the bchl-ds and rfp were monitored over days after treatment , by quantitative whole body imaging and excised tumor/tissue samples derived thereof .
complementary experiments included competitive inhibition of stl-6014 uptake by free c(rgdfk) , comparative pharmacokinetics of nonconjugated c(rgdfk) bchl-d ( stl-7012 ) and of two human serum albumin ( hsa ) conjugates : hsa-stl-7012 and hsa-stl-6014 .
results stl-6014 and stl-7012 formed complexes with hsa ( hsa/stl-6014 , hsa/stl-7012 ) .
stl-6014 , hsa-stl-7012 and hsa-stl-6014 , selectively accumulated at similar rates , in tumor viable regions over the first 8 h post administration .
they then migrated into the necrotic tumor domain and presented tumor half lifetimes ( t1/2 ) in the range of days where t1/2 for hsa-stl-6014 &gt ; stl-6014 &gt ; hsa-stl-7012 .
no accumulation of stl-7012 was observed .
pre-injection of c(rgdfk) excess , prevented the uptake of stl-6014 in the small , but not in the large tumors .
conclusions non-covalent association to sa and covalent binding to c(rgdfk) , synergistically enable the accumulation and prolonged retention of bchl-ds in the necrotic regions of tumors .
these findings provide novel guidelines and strategy for imaging and treatment of necrotic tumors .
hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) , one of the most frequent and deadliest cancers , has been increasing considerably in the united states .
in the absence of a proven effective therapy for hcc , novel chemopreventive strategies are urgently needed to lower the current morbidity and mortality of hcc .
recently , we have reported that resveratrol , a compound present in grapes and red wine , significantly prevents diethylnitrosamine ( dena)-induced liver tumorigenesis in rats , although the mechanism of action is not completely understood .
in the present study , we have examined the underlying mechanisms of resveratrol chemoprevention of hepatocarcinogenesis by investigating the effects of resveratrol on oxidative damage and inflammatory markers during dena-initiated rat liver carcinogenesis .
there was a significant increase in hepatic lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation in carcinogen control animals compared with their normal counterparts at the end of the study ( 20 weeks ) .
elevated expressions of inducible nitric oxide synthase and 3-nitrotyrosine were noticed in the livers of the same animals .
dietary resveratrol ( 50-300 mg/kg ) administered throughout the study reversed all the aforementioned markers in a dose-responsive fashion in rats challenged with dena .
resveratrol also elevated the protein and mrna expression of hepatic nuclear factor e2-related factor 2 ( nrf2 ) .
results of the present investigation provide evidence that attenuation of oxidative stress and suppression of inflammatory response mediated by nrf2 could be implicated , at least in part , in the chemopreventive effects of this dietary agent against chemically induced hepatic tumorigenesis in rats .
the outcome of this study may benefit the development of resveratrol in the prevention and intervention of human hcc .
by intravenous ( but not oral ) application of ascorbate , millimolar serum concentrations can be reached , which are preferentially cytotoxic to cancer cells .
cytotoxicity is mediated by transition metal-dependent generation of h(2)o(2) in the interstitial space .
in this study , the sensitivity of neuroblastoma cells ( kelly , sk-n-sh ) to ascorbate and h(2)o(2) and their defense mechanisms against h(2)o(2) were investigated .
since aerobic glycolysis ( the warburg effect ) is a feature of many tumour cells , their glucose consumption and lactate production were monitored .
furthermore , synthesis and release of ferritin by neuroblastoma cells were analysed in order to examine whether ferritin is possibly an iron source for h(2)o(2) generation .
ascorbate ( 0.6-5.0 mm ) and h(2)o(2) ( 25-100 mum ) were found to be similarly cytotoxic to kelly and sk-n-sh cells .
in each case , cytotoxicity increased if cell concentrations decreased , in accordance with low cell concentrations having lower capacities to detoxify h(2)o(2) .
kelly and sk-n-sh cells produced and released remarkable amounts of lactate and ferritin .
we propose the selective cytotoxicity of high dose ascorbate to tumour cells to be due to the preferential generation of h(2)o(2) in the acidic and ferritin-rich tumour microenvironment , combined with reduced defense systems against h(2)o(2) as a consequence of aerobic glycolysis .
the ras-assocation domain family ( rassf ) of tumor suppressor proteins until recently contained six proteins named rassf1-6 .
recently , four novel family members , rassf7-10 , have been identified by homology searches for ra-domain-containing proteins .
these additional rassf members are divergent and structurally distinct from rassf1-6 , containing an n-terminal ra domain and lacking the sav/rassf/hpo ( sarah ) domain .
here , we show that rassf8 is ubiquitously expressed throughout the murine embryo and in normal human adult tissues .
functionally , rnai-mediated knockdown of rassf8 in non-small-cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) cell lines , increased anchorage-independent growth in soft agar and enhanced tumor growth in severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ) mice .
furthermore , edu staining of rassf8-depleted cells showed growth suppression in a manner dependent on contact inhibition .
we show that endogenous rassf8 is not only found in the nucleus , but is also membrane associated at sites of cell-cell adhesion , co-localizing with the adherens junction ( aj ) component beta-catenin and binding to e-cadherin .
following rassf8 depletion in two different lung cancer cell lines using alternative small interfering rna ( sirna ) sequences , we show that ajs are destabilized and e-cadherin is lost from the cell membrane .
the aj components beta-catenin and p65 are also lost from sites of cell-cell contact and are relocalized to the nucleus with a concomitant increase in beta-catenin-dependent and nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-kappab)-dependent signaling following rassf8 depletion .
rassf8 may also be required to maintain actin -cytoskeletal organization since immunofluorescence analysis shows a striking disorganization of the actin- cytoskeleton following rassf8 depletion .
accordingly , scratch wound healing studies show increased cellular migration in rassf8-deficient cells .
these results implicate rassf8 as a tumor suppressor gene that is essential for maintaining ajs function in epithelial cells and have a role in epithelial cell migration .
introduction a subpopulation of cancer cells , tumor-initiating cells , is believed to be the driving force behind tumorigenesis and resistance to radiation and chemotherapy .
the persistence of tumor-initiating cells may depend on altered regulation of dna damage and checkpoint proteins , as well as a reduced propensity to undergo apoptosis or senescence .
methods to test this hypothesis , we isolated cd24-/low/cd44+ tumor-initiating cells ( as mammospheres ) from mcf-7 breast cancer cells grown in adherent monolayer culture , and carried out a comprehensive comparison of cell death and dna damage response pathways prior to and after exposure to ionizing radiation in mammospheres and monolayer mcf-7 cells .
single and double-strand break repair was measured by single-cell gel electrophoresis .
the latter was also examined by phosphorylation of histone h2ax and formation of 53bp1 and rad51 foci .
apoptosis was quantified by flow-cytometric analysis of annexin v-binding and senescence was analyzed on the basis of cellular beta-galactosidase activity .
we employed the telomeric repeat amplification protocol to quantify telomerase activity .
expression of key dna repair and cell cycle regulatory proteins was detected and quantified by western blot analysis .
results our data demonstrate that in comparison to the bulk population of mcf-7 cells ( predominantly cd24+/cd44+ ) , the mcf-7 mammosphere cells benefit from a multifaceted approach to cellular protection relative to that seen in monolayer cells , including a reduced level of reactive oxygen species , a more active dna single-strand break repair ( ssbr ) pathway , possibly due to a higher level of expression of the key ssbr protein , human ap endonuclease 1 ( ape1 ) , and a significantly reduced propensity to undergo senescence as a result of increased telomerase activity and a low level of p21 protein expression .
no significant difference was seen in the rates of double-strand break repair ( dsbr ) between the two cell types , but dsbr in mammospheres appears to by-pass the need for h2ax phosphorylation .
conclusions enhanced survival of mcf-7 tumor-initiating cells in response to ionizing radiation is primarily dependent on an inherent down-regulation of the senescence pathway .
since mcf-7 cells are representative of cancer cells that do not readily undergo apoptosis , consideration of senescence pathways may play a role in targeting stem cells from such tumors .
autophagy is activated in response to cellular stressors and mediates lysosomal degradation and recycling of cytoplasmic material and organelles as a temporary cell survival mechanism .
defective autophagy is implicated in human pathology , as disruption of protein and organelle homeostasis enables disease-promoting mechanisms such as toxic protein aggregation , oxidative stress , genomic damage , and inflammation .
we previously showed that autophagy-defective immortalized mouse mammary epithelial cells are susceptible to metabolic stress , dna damage , and genomic instability .
we now report that autophagy deficiency is associated with endoplasmic reticulum ( er ) and oxidative stress , and with deregulation of p62-mediated keratin homeostasis in mammary cells , allograft tumors , and mammary tissues from genetically engineered mice .
in human breast tumors , high phospho(ser73)-k8 levels are inversely correlated with beclin 1 expression .
thus , autophagy preserves cellular fitness by limiting er and oxidative stress , a function potentially important in autophagy-mediated suppression of mammary tumorigenesis .
furthermore , autophagy regulates keratin homeostasis in the mammary gland via a p62-dependent mechanism .
high phospho(ser73)-k8 expression may be a marker of autophagy functional status in breast tumors and , as such , could have therapeutic implications for breast cancer patients .
hypoxia is one of the inevitable circumstances of various tumors .
it controls various levels of regulation in tumor progression and results in tumor resistance to radiotherapy and chemotherapy .
here we investigated a synthetic tpz derivative , n-ethoxymethyl-3-amino-1,2,4-benzotriazine-1,4-dioxide ( xq2 ) , a novel compound that induced anti-cancer effects both in normoxia and in hypoxia , cell proliferation assay found that xq2 exhibited a potent inhibitory effect on the tested cancer cell lines both in normoxia and in hypoxia .
flow cytometry and western blot studies indicated that xq2 induces g2/m arrest and a caspase-dependent apoptosis in a549 cells .
additionally , intracellular reactive oxygen species ( ros ) appear to play a key role in the anticancer effect of xq2 in hypoxia .
taken together , our data suggest that xq2 exerted anticancer action by suppressing the ros level and triggering cell-cycle arrest and the caspase-dependent pathway , which is associated with apoptosis .
magnetite iron nanoparticles have been widely used as contrast agents and in thermal therapy for cancer .
however , their adverse effects on human health have not been fully investigated .
in this study , iron oxide nanoparticles were prepared using inorganic iron chloride ( size : 5.3+/-3.6 nm in phosphate buffered saline , surface charge : 23.14 mv ) , and their inflammatory responses were investigated .
when mice were treated with iron oxide nanoparticles ( 250 microg/kg , 500 microg/kg , and 1mg/kg ) by a single intratracheal instillation , the level of intracellular reduced glutathione ( gsh ) was decreased in the cells of bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) fluid .
the arrest of cell cycles in g1 phase was observed , but s-phase was significantly decreased .
the concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines ( il-1 , tnf-alpha , and il-6 ) were dose-dependently increased at day 1 after instillation in the bal fluid and in the blood .
during the experimental period of 28 days , pro-inflammatory cytokines ( il-1 , tnf-alpha , and il-6 ) , th0 cytokine ( il-2 ) , th1 type cytokine ( il-12 ) , th2 type cytokines ( il-4 and il-5 ) , tgf-beta , and ige were also elevated .
expressions of many genes related with inflammation or tissue damage such as heat shock protein , matrix metalloproteinase , tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases , and serum amyloid a were significantly induced .
formation of microgranuloma , which is one of the indicators for chronic inflammatory response , was observed in the alveolar space .
in addition , distribution of b cell and cd8+ t cell in blood lymphocytes was increased at day 28 .
based on the result , iron oxide nanoparticles may subchronic induce inflammatory responses via oxidative stress in mice by a single intratracheal instillation .
infection by opisthorchis viverrini , a risk factor for cholangiocarcinoma ( cca ) may act through chronic inflammation , oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation ( lpo)-related damage and growth stimuli. 1,n6-etheno-2'-deoxyadenosine ( epsilonda ) , and 3,n4-etheno-2'-deoxycytidine ( epsilondc ) , markers for lpo-derived dna damage were highly increased in white blood cell and urine of o. viverrini-infected thai patients .
in order to investigate tissue specificity etheno adducts were measured in a cholangiocarcinogenesis model , in o. viverrini-infected hamsters that had received n-nitrosodimethylamine ( ndma , 12.5 ppm in dw ) for 2 months. epsilonda- and epsilondc-levels were analyzed in paraffin-embedded liver sections by a novel immunohistochemical method , from 21 up to 180 days post-o. viverrini-infection .
in inflamed areas of the liver , etheno adducts were localized in the nuclei of inflammatory cells and in the epithelial lining of the bile duct .
semi-quantitative image analysis showed higher adduct levels in the liver of o. viverrini-infected hamsters , treated with or w/o ndma when compared with untreated controls .
levels were found highest in the liver of o. viverrini-infected plus ndma-treated hamsters .
adducts increased in an age-dependent manner from o. viverrini-infection until cca development .
increased adduct formation paralleled histopathological changes in plasma alkaline phosphatase ( alp ) activity , bile duct hyperplasia , dysplasia , precancerous lesions , and cca appearance .
also elevated expression of alkyladenine dna glycosylase ( aag ) , which excises 1,n6-ethenoadenine ( epsilona ) was linked to higher adduct formation , suggesting imbalanced repair .
our results implicate accumulation of inflammation-related , promutagenic dna damage in target tissue and possibly imbalanced repair in the onset of cholangiocarcinogenesis .
contact inhibition is the process by which cells switch from a motile growing state to a passive and stabilized state upon touching their neighbors .
when two cells touch , an adhesion link is created between them by means of transmembrane e-cadherin proteins .
simultaneously , their actin filaments stop polymerizing in the direction perpendicular to the membrane and reorganize to create an apical belt that colocalizes with the adhesion links .
here , we propose a detailed quantitative model of the role of cytoplasmic beta-catenin and alpha-catenin proteins in this process , treated as a reaction-diffusion system .
upon cell-cell contact the concentration in alpha-catenin dimers increases , inhibiting actin branching and thereby reducing cellular motility and expansion pressure .
this model provides a mechanism for contact inhibition that could explain previously unrelated experimental findings on the role played by e-cadherin , beta-catenin , and alpha-catenin in the cellular phenotype and in tumorigenesis .
in particular , we address the effect of a knockout of the adenomatous polyposis coli tumor suppressor gene .
potential direct tests of our model are discussed .
proliferation of non-transformed cells is regulated by cell-cell contacts , which are referred to as contact-inhibition .
vice versa , transformed cells are characterised by a loss of contact-inhibition .
despite its generally accepted importance for cell-cycle control , little is known about the intracellular signalling pathways involved in contact-inhibition .
unravelling the molecular mechanisms of contact-inhibition and its loss during tumourigenesis will be an important step towards the identification of novel target genes in tumour diagnosis and treatment .
to better understand the underlying molecular mechanisms we identified the transcriptional programme of contact-inhibition in nih3t3 fibroblast using high-density microarrays .
setting the cut off : &gt;or=1.5-fold , p &lt;or= 0.05 , 853 genes and 73 cdna sequences were differentially expressed in confluent compared to exponentially growing cultures .
importing these data into genmapp software revealed a comprehensive list of cell-cycle regulatory genes mediating g0/g1 arrest , which was confirmed by rt-pcr and western blot .
in a narrow analysis ( cut off : &gt;or=2-fold , p &lt;or= 0.002 ) , we found 110 transcripts to be differentially expressed representing 107 genes and 3 cdna sequences involved , for example , in proliferation , signal transduction , transcriptional regulation , cell adhesion and communication .
interestingly , the majority of genes was upregulated indicating that contact-inhibition is not a passive state , but actively induced .
furthermore , we confirmed differential expression of eight genes by semi-quantitative rt-pcr and identified the potential tumour suppressor transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta)-1-induced clone 22 ( tsc-22 ; tgfb1i4 ) as a novel protein to be induced in contact-inhibited cells .
introduction tamoxifen is the most widely prescribed anti-estrogen treatment for patients with estrogen receptor ( er)-positive breast cancer .
however , there is still a need for biomarkers that reliably predict endocrine sensitivity in breast cancers and these may well be expressed in a dynamic manner .
methods in this study we assessed gene expression changes at multiple time points ( days 1 , 2 , 4 , 7 , 14 ) after tamoxifen treatment in the er-positive zr-75-1 xenograft model that displays significant changes in apoptosis , proliferation and angiogenesis within 2 days of therapy .
results hierarchical clustering identified six time-related gene expression patterns , which separated into three groups : two with early/transient responses , two with continuous/late responses and two with variable response patterns .
the early/transient response represented reductions in many genes that are involved in cell cycle and proliferation ( e.g .
bub1b , ccna2 , cdkn3 , mki67 , ube2c ) , whereas the continuous/late changed genes represented the more classical estrogen response genes ( e.g .
tff1 , tff3 , igfbp5 ) .
genes and the proteins they encode were confirmed to have similar temporal patterns of expression in vitro and in vivo and correlated with reduction in tumour volume in primary breast cancer .
the profiles of genes that were most differentially expressed on days 2 , 4 and 7 following treatment were able to predict prognosis , whereas those most changed on days 1 and 14 were not , in four tamoxifen treated datasets representing a total of 404 patients .
conclusions both early/transient/proliferation response genes and continuous/late/estrogen-response genes are able to predict prognosis of primary breast tumours in a dynamic manner .
temporal expression of therapy-response genes is clearly an important factor in characterising the response to endocrine therapy in breast tumours which has significant implications for the timing of biopsies in neoadjuvant biomarker studies .
objectives oxidative stress and pro-inflammatory mediators have been implicated in breast carcinogenesis .
we attempted to evaluate the markers of oxidative stress , antioxidant mechanism and the inflammatory pathway in patients with breast cancer .
methods this study was carried out in departments of biochemistry and surgery , maulana azad medical college and associated hospitals , new delhi , india .
a total of 60 cases of carcinoma of the breast and 60 healthy controls were included in the study .
the parameters that were assayed include markers of oxidative stress-conjugated dienes , thiobarbitone reactive substances ( tbars ) , antioxidants-superoxide dismutase ( sod ) , catalase ( cat ) , glutathione peroxidase ( gpx ) , glutathione ( gsh ) and markers of inflammation-interleukin-6(il-6) and ferritin .
results there was a significant decline in the antioxidant levels and a significant rise in oxidant levels in patients with carcinoma of the breast , compared to controls .
the inflammatory markers-il-6 and ferritin-were also significantly higher in patients with breast cancer .
a significantly positive correlation was observed between the il-6 levels and conjugated dienes with the stage of breast carcinoma ; whilst a significantly negative correlation was observed between the levels of conjugated dienes and superoxide dismutase and superoxide dismutase levels with the disease staging .
conclusions this study underlines the interplay between inflammatory pathways and oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of breast cancer .
mini abstract : an intense research is underway to identify the possible risk factors and the molecular mechanisms involved in pathogenesis of breast cancer .
inflammation and oxidative stress are two such etiologies investigated in our study .
aims and background to investigate a six-drug combination in patients with nonmetastatic ewing sarcoma , focusing on chemotherapy-induced necrosis and chemotherapy toxicity in adult and pediatric patients .
methods and study design alternating cycles of vincristine ( 1.5 mg/m2 ) , doxorubicin ( 80 mg/m2 ) and cyclophosfamide ( 1200 mg/m2 ) ( weeks 0 , 6 , 13 , 22 and 31 ) , ifosfamide ( 9 g/m2 ) , vincristine ( 1.5 mg/m2 ) , and actinomycin d ( 1.5 mg/m2 ) ( weeks 3 , 16 , 25 and 34 ) , and ifosfamide ( 9 g/m2 ) and etoposide ( 450 mg/m2 ) ( weeks 9 , 19 , 28 and 37 ) were administered .
primary chemotherapy-induced necrosis was graded : g3 ( complete necrosis ) , g2 ( microfoci of tumor cells ) and g1 ( macrofoci of tumor cells ) .
results from 1996 to 1999 , 50 patients with ewing sarcoma were enrolled .
the median age was 23.5 years ( range , 4-56 ) .
chemotherapy-induced necrosis ( in 28 patients ) was g3 in 36% , g2 in 21% and g1 in 43% .
at a median follow-up of 110 months ( range , 36-129 ) , 5-year overall survival and event-free survival were 72% and 66% , respectively .
according to histologic response , 5-year event-free survival was 90% in g3 , 83% in g2 , and 42% in g1 ( p = 0.02 ) .
in adult and pediatric ( &lt;18 years ) patients , the incidence of g4 leukopenia was 62% and 74% , respectively , with febrile neutropenia in 13% and 21% , respectively .
g4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 3% of cycles in adults and in 7% in pediatric patients .
platelet and red blood cell transfusions were required respectively in 1% and 11% of cycles in adults and in 6% and 24% of cycles in pediatric patients .
conclusions the six-drug combination can be administered safely in adult and pediatric populations .
about 40% of patients have a poor chemotherapy-induced tumor necrosis , leading to poor probability of survival .
new strategies are recommended to improve survival of poor responders to the six-drug combination .
recent studies have demonstrated that n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids such as eicosapentaenoic acid ( epa ) are able to suppress cell proliferation and inhibit tumor growth .
the objective of our study was to investigate the influence of a high dose epa on the development of the tumor phenotype in ataxia-telangiectasia mutated ( atm)-deficient mice , a genetic cancer model that is associated with increased levels of oxidative stress .
we analyzed toxicity , proliferation , cell-cycle progression , and apoptosis of epa in vitro and latency to tumorigenesis in vivo .
because of the impact of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) on the tumor incidence in ataxia telangiectasia ( at ) , we further analyzed the effect of epa on the generation of ros and oxidative dna damage ( odd ) .
epa effectively inhibited proliferation , altered cell-cycle progression , and induced apoptosis of tumor cells ( at-4 ) .
epa showed no effect on the latency to tumorigenesis in atm-deficient mice .
epa treatment was accompanied by a significant increase of ros and odd .
our results demonstrate the antiproliferative effect of epa on tumor cells by alteration of cell-cycle progression and induction of apoptosis in vitro .
on the other hand , epa treatment of atm-deficient mice led to the formation of ros and accumulation of odd that might have abrogated the anticarcinogenic effect caused by epa .
medicinal mushroom ganoderma lucidum is one of the most esteemed natural products that have been used in the traditional chinese medicine .
in this article , we demonstrate that g. lucidum triterpene extract ( glt ) suppresses proliferation of human colon cancer cells ht-29 and inhibits tumor growth in a xenograft model of colon cancer .
these effects of glt are associated with the cell cycle arrest at g0/g1 and the induction of the programmed cell death type ii-autophagy in colon cancer cells .
here , we show that glt induces formation of autophagic vacuoles and upregulates expression of beclin-1 ( 1.3-fold increase ) and lc-3 ( 7.3-fold increase ) proteins in colon cancer cells and in tumors in a xenograft model ( beclin-1 , 3.9-fold increase ; lc-3 , 1.9-fold increase ) .
autophagy is mediated through the inhibition of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase ( p38 mapk ) because p38 mapk inhibitor , sb202190 , induces autophagy and expression of beclin-1 ( 1.2-fold increase ) and lc-3 ( 7.4-fold increase ) , and glt suppresses phosphorylation of p38 mapk ( approximately 60% inhibition ) in colon cancer cells .
taken together , our data demonstrate a novel mechanism responsible for the inhibition of colon cancer cells by g. lucidum and suggest glt as natural product for the treatment of colon cancer .
we have previously demonstrated the antiproliferative effect of two flavonoids-2,2'-dihydroxychalcone ( dhc ) , a novel synthetic flavonoid , and fisetin , a naturally occurring flavonol-in prostate cancer cells .
in this study , we further examine the mechanisms of these compounds on survival and proliferation pathways .
dhc and fisetin ( 1-50 microm ) caused a dose-dependent reduction in viability , a concomitant increase in apoptosis in pc3 cells at 72 h , and a decrease in clonogenic survival at 24 h treatment .
dhc was considerably more potent than fisetin in these cytotoxicity assays .
the mechanism of accelerated cellular senescence was not activated by either compound in pc3 or lymph node carcinoma of the prostate ( lncap ) cells .
gene expression alterations in pc3 and lncap cells treated with 15 mum dhc and 25 microm fisetin for 6 to 24 h were determined by oligonucleotide array .
amongst the most highly represented functional categories of genes altered by both compounds was the cell cycle category .
in total , 100 cell cycle genes were altered by dhc and fisetin including 27 genes with key functions in g2/m phase that were downregulated by both compounds .
other functional categories altered included chromosome organization , apoptosis , and stress response .
these results demonstrate the multiple mechanisms of antitumor activity of dhc and fisetin in prostate cancer cells in vitro .
in traditional biochemical experiments , the behavior of individual proteins is obscured by ensemble averaging .
to better understand the behavior of proteins that bind to and/or translocate on dna , we have developed instrumentation that uses optical trapping , microfluidic solution delivery , and fluorescent microscopy to visualize either individual proteins or assemblies of proteins acting on single molecules of dna .
the general experimental design involves attaching a single dna molecule to a polystyrene microsphere that is then used as a microscopic handle to manipulate individual dna molecules with a laser trap .
visualization is achieved by fluorescently labeling either the dna or the protein of interest , followed by direct imaging using high-sensitivity fluorescence microscopy .
we describe the sample preparation and instrumentation used to visualize the interaction of individual proteins with single molecules of dna .
as examples , we describe the application of these methods to the study of proteins involved in recombination-mediated dna repair , a process essential for the maintenance of genomic integrity .
unlabelled activation of beta-catenin , the central effector of the canonical wnt pathway and a recognized oncogene , has been implicated in hepatocellular carcinoma .
we examined n-nitrosodiethylamine ( den)-induced tumorigenesis in hepatic beta-catenin conditional knockout mice ( beta-cat ko ) .
male beta-cat ko and age- and sex-matched littermate controls were given a single intraperitoneal den injection and followed for 6-12 months for hepatic tumors .
hepatic tumors were characterized for histology , proliferation , apoptosis , oxidative stress , and specific proteins by way of western blot , immunohistochemistry , and coprecipitation studies .
for in vivo tumor intervention studies , specific inhibitors were administered intraperitoneally or through drinking water .
intriguingly , beta-cat ko mice showed a paradoxical increase in susceptibility to den-induced tumorigenesis .
this accelerated tumorigenesis is due to increased injury and inflammation , unrestricted oxidative stress , fibrosis , and compensatory increase in hepatocyte proliferation secondary to platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha ( pdgfralpha)/phosphoinositide 3-kinase ( pik3ca)/akt activation and c-myc overexpression .
in vitro suppression of beta-catenin expression in hepatoma cells led to enhanced pdgfralpha expression , which was abrogated in the presence of nuclear factor kappab ( nf-kappab ) inhibitor .
daily treatment of 6-month-old den-exposed beta-cat ko with pdgfralpha inhibitor dramatically reduced tumor numbers and size .
inclusion of n-acetyl-l-cysteine , a known antioxidant and nf-kappab inhibitor , in the drinking water led to complete abolition of tumorigenesis in den-exposed beta-cat ko .
conclusion loss of beta-catenin impairs the liver's ability to counteract den-induced oxidative stress and enhances tumorigenesis through pdgfralpha/pik3ca/akt signaling .
blockade of pdgfralpha or oxidative stress dramatically affects beta-catenin-deficient tumorigenesis .
also , hepatoma cells use pdgfralpha/pik3ca signaling as an escape mechanism following beta-catenin suppression , and their sequential suppression profoundly impedes tumor proliferation .
a 39-year-old male without contributory medical history had sustained progressive double vision , ptosis , and trigeminal pain for 2 weeks .
physical examination revealed total ophthalmoplegia and visual field defect with normal blood examination and chest radiography .
cranial computed tomography revealed a hyperdense mass in the left frontotemporal fossae with bony erosion .
magnetic resonance imaging confirmed a broad-based , intensely enhanced extraaxial tumor of 4x4x4 cm diameter with dural tail sign .
cerebral angiography demonstrated insignificant blood supply both from the internal carotid and middle meningeal arteries .
nearly total tumor resection was achieved via orbitofrontotemporal craniotomy .
intraoperative findings revealed the extraaxial tumor with broad attachment to the dura mater and invasion to the optic and oculomotor nerves .
histological examination revealed hypercellular tumor with significant cell atypism , mitotic activity , and focal necrosis .
immunohistochemical staining was positive for ae1/3 and c-kit , but negative for glial fibrillary acidic protein .
systemic examination performed postoperatively revealed a thymic tumor without additional remote lesions .
the final diagnosis was metastatic brain tumor from thymic carcinoma .
rapid progression of neurological impairment inconsistent with a benign extraaxial tumor needs prompt surgical intervention .
objective to analyze the profiles of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) , il-6 , il-8 , il-10 , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , transforming growth factor-beta1 ( tgf-beta1 ) and interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) in serum and the tumor microenvironment ( cyst fluid , ascites ) in women with ovarian cancer or benign ovarian tumors to find the differences in their immunological status .
we also estimated serum cytokines as biomarkers to distinguish preoperatively between malignant or benign character of tumors .
design prospective study .
setting tertiary referral hospital .
population 51 women with epithelial ovarian cancer , 26 with benign ovarian tumors of epithelial origin and 21 healthy controls .
methods the levels of cytokines were measured using elisa sets .
results we did not found differences in the levels of ifn-gamma , tnf-alpha and il-2 in all fluids isolated from patients with malignant or benign tumors .
women with advanced cancer had significantly higher serum il-6 , il-10 and tgf-beta1 levels than women with early stages or benign tumors .
moreover , women with very advanced cancer in whom the optimal cytoreduction was disabled had the highest serum levels of il-10 , tgf-beta1 and il-8 .
the concentrations of il-6 and il-8 were higher in ascites of cancer patients than in ascites of women with benign tumors .
the areas under curves constructed for the selected cutoff serum cytokines levels ( auc-roc ) showed good predictive values for il-6 ( 0.87 ) , il-10 ( 0.836 ) and il-8 ( 0.797 ) .
conclusions our results indicate on intensified inflammatory process in women with ovarian cancer ( accompanied by their immunosuppression ) .
preoperative analysis of serum il-6 , il-10 and il-8 may improve the differential diagnosis of ovarian tumors .
objectives to evaluate and compare the incidence , tnm staging and the current strate- gy for the surgical treatment of renal cell carcinoma ( rcc ) in two european urologic institutions , situated in varna , bulgaria and in bari , italy .
both clinics have sound experience of rcc surgery , and modern laparoscopic equipment .
a retrospective chart review of all patients with rcc diagnosed and treated in the last year was conducted at the two sites .
materials and methods in total , 88 patients ( 66 males and 22 females , mean age 58 years , range 24-81 years ) were enrolled in the study .
comparisons were made between some clinical and pathologic parameters with an established prognostic and therapeutic impact .
the type of surgery perormed at both sites was analyzed as well .
all these comparative studies were performed in relation to the 2008 eau guidelines on the current management of rcc .
commercially available statistical software was used for the purpose .
results the results showed no difference between the two sites regarding the rcc incidence and the patients ' age and gender .
significant differences ( p value &lt ; 0.0001 ) emerged in terms of : the median size of the tumors at surgery ( 8.5 cm in varna , sd + 4.04 vs. 4.4 cm in bari , sd _ 2.02 ) ; t-stage of the tumor ( varna t t2-30% , t3-22% , t4-15% vs. bari t1-64% , t2-12% , t3-24% , t4-0% ) ; n-positive disese ( 24% vs. 2% ) ; distant metastases ( 20% vs. 2% ) and presence of necrosis in the renal masses ( 37% vs. 19% ) .
thus , 85% of varna patients underwent open radical nephrectomy , 11% nephron-sparing surgery and 4% explorative laparotomy , due to inoperability of the renal mass .
only 29% of bari patients were treated by open radical nephrectomy , 12% underwent laparoscopic nephrectomy , 57% open partial nephrectomy and 2% laparoscopic partial tumor resection .
conclusions : these numbers demonstrate more advantageous tumour features at the italian clinic in terms of organ-sparing surgical options ( open and laparoscopic ) , whereas in the bulgarian clinic the tumour features pose certain limitations to the application of modern surgical techniques .
this difference is due to early diagnosis of rcc in italy , allowing treatment of smaller volume tumors .
the soluble hexavalent chromium cr ( vi ) used in industrial welding is an environmental contaminant widely recognized to act as a carcinogen , mutagen and teratogen towards humans and animals .
the carcinogenic potential of metals is a major issue in defining human health risk from exposure .
in the present investigation , 93 welders and 60 control subjects with similar mean ages , smoking prevalences and alcohol consumption were enrolled for dna damage analysis in blood leucocytes by micronucleus assay ( mn ) and the comet assay .
dna repair inhibition was also analyzed by assessing xpd gene polymorphism .
welders showed a significant increase in micronucleated cells compared to controls with respect to their smoking habits and alcohol consumption , age and years of exposure ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
results indicated that the welders had a larger mean comet tail length than that of the controls ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
the current study suggested that chronic occupational exposure to cr ( vi ) during welding could lead to increased levels of dna damage and repair inhibition .
objective the study was undertaken to document and highlight the shortcomings of histopathology reporting of breast carcinoma in pakistan so that improvements can be recommended and a standardized protocol devised .
methods this was a descriptive cross sectional study and was conducted at histopathology department , armed forces institute of pathology , rawalpindi from 1st january 2008 to 31st october 2008 .
fifty consecutive breast carcinoma reports received for review from different laboratories were analyzed for documentation of patients age , sex , type of procedure/specimen , specimen size , tumour size , invasive tumour type , invasive tumour grade , comment on excision margins , extent of lymph node involvement , insitu component , lymphovascular invasion , necrosis , skin involvement and tabular format .
frequencies and percentages were calculated for presence of these above mentioned variables in different reports , keeping in mind the possible information that could be obtained from a particular sample .
results it was found that the variable least mentioned in the reports was in situ component commented upon in only 23.2% of reports .
necrosis was mentioned in 35% of reports .
tabular format was found in 36% of reports only .
conclusion marked deficiencies are seen in histopathology reports for breast carcinoma due to the lack of any standardized reporting system .
separate checklist formats for trucut biopsies , lumpectomies and mastectomies should be introduced to ensure uniform reporting .
background barrett's esophagus ( be ) is caused by gastroesophageal reflux with consecutive mucosal inflammation , predisposing patients to the development of esophageal adenocarcinoma ( eac ) .
we investigated changes in t cell-related mucosal combinatorial molecular protein patterns in both diseases using the novel multi-epitope-ligand-cartography , a unique robotic whole-cell imaging technology that simultaneously visualizes dozens of proteins in structurally intact tissues and correlates cellular localization of proteins with function .
results biopsies were taken during endoscopy from be , eac , and normal control tissue , and proteomic microscopy was performed on 32 different epitopes .
when the significance level was set to p &lt ; 0.0005 and the search depth to five antibody combinations , controls and be can be differentiated by 63 , controls and eac by 3222 , and be from eac by 1521 distinct protein combinations.for example , the number of activated apoptotic nave and memory t cells was significantly increased only in be , whereas the number of activated apoptotic helper and regulatory t cells was significantly elevated in be and eac .
in contrast , the number of activated apoptotic cytotoxic t cells was significantly elevated only in eac .
confirming different pathways in be and eac , the number of t lymphocytes with p53 expression and downregulation of bcl2 expression ( cd3+p53+bcl2-nfkb- ) was significantly increased in eac compared to be and controls .
interestingly , the number of precursor t cells ( cd7+ ) was significantly elevated only in eac .
these cells lack bax and caspase-8 , suggesting impaired apoptosis in the early stages of t cell differentiation .
conclusion proteomic analysis showed for the first time that proteins , which are critically involved in the mucosal immune system of the esophagus , are distinctly expressed in be and eac , whereas others are comparably altered in both diseases , suggesting that many pathogenic events might be shared by both diseases .
topological proteomic analysis , therefore , helps us to understand the different pathogenic events in the underlying disease pathways .
objective to study the effect of necrostatin ( nec-1 ) on apoptosis induced by aluminum ( al ) , and approach the mechanism .
methods neural cell death model was made by 4 mmol/l al treated neuroblastoma cells ( sh-sy5y ) .
cell viabilities were detected at different concentrations of al and/or nec-1 .
hoechst 33342/pi double staining was used to observe apoptosis and ( or ) necrosis that were quantified by flow cytometry using annexin v/pi double staining .
apoptotic pathway was tested by activities of caspase-3 , caspase-8 and caspase-9 .
in addition , the expression of nf-kappa b and cyt-c was measured by immunocytochemistry .
results cell viabilities were significantly decreased with the increasing concentrations of al ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) , which could be significantly upregulated by 60 micromol/l nec-1 ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) and were correlated with the concentrations of nec-1 ( p &lt ; 0.05 , p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
apoptosis and necrosis were observed under fluorescent microscope and quantified by flow cytometry , which suggested an increasing trend of apoptotic and necrotic rates ( p &lt ; 0.05 , p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
whereas , nec-1 could not only decrease the necrotic rate but also apoptotic rate as well ( p &lt ; 0.05 , p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
data of nec-1 on caspases activities showed that nec-1 could not affect caspase-9 activity ( p &gt ; 0.05 ) and cty-c protein expression as well ( p &gt ; 0.05 ) .
however , nec-1 could reduce caspase-8 activity significantly ( p &lt ; 0.05 , p &lt ; 0.01 ) and increase nf-kappa b protein expression ( p &lt ; 0.05 , p &lt ; 0.01 ) and finally decrease caspase-3 activity ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
conclusion nec-1 could reduce cell apoptosis induced by al , through caspase-8 pathway , and up-regulate the expression of nf-kappa b protein .
bisphosphonates ( bps ) are the current standard of care for bone lesions in patients with multiple myeloma ( mm ) but they are associated with a number of side effects such as osteonecrosis of the jaw .
the exact mechanisms of osteonecrosis are not elucidated , and its physiopathology is based on several hypotheses such as a decrease in bone remodeling or an inhibitory effect on angiogenesis .
the aim of our study was to investigate the mechanism involved in the pathogenesis of osteonecrosis .
we examined the apoptosis of circulating endothelial progenitor cells in mm subjects before and after bp treatment and in osteonecrosis patients using a flow-cytometric analysis .
our data showed an increase in endothelial cell apoptosis in mm patients after bp administration and in osteonecrosis subjects .
our study seems in agreement with the hypothesis that bps can inhibit angiogenesis interfering with endothelial cell proliferation and survival , leading to loss of blood vessels and avascular necrosis .
the biological activities of tocotrienols are receiving increasing attention .
herein , we report the efficacy of a mixed-tocotrienol diet against prostate tumorigenesis in the transgenic adenocarcinoma mouse prostate ( tramp ) mouse model .
male tramp mice , 8 wk old , were fed 0.1% , 0.3% , or 1% mixed tocotrienols in ain-76a diet up to 24 wk old .
likewise , a positive control group consisting of male tramp mice and a negative control group consisting of wild-type nontransgenic mice were fed regular ain-76a diet up to 24 wk old .
our results show that mixed-tocotrienol-fed groups had a lower incidence of tumor formation along with a significant reduction in the average wet weight of genitourinary apparatus .
furthermore , mixed tocotrienols significantly reduced the levels of high-grade neoplastic lesions as compared to the positive controls .
this decrease in levels of high-grade neoplastic lesions was found to be associated with increased expression of proapoptotic proteins bad ( bcl(2) antagonist of cell death ) and cleaved caspase-3 and cell cycle regulatory proteins cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors p21 and p27 .
in contrast , the expression of cyclins a and e were found to be decreased in mixed-tocotrienol groups .
taken together , our results show that by modulating cell cycle regulatory proteins and increasing expression of proapoptotic proteins , mixed tocotrienols suppress prostate tumorigenesis in the tramp mice .
aims to screen the genes and possible signal transduction pathways with which nucleostemin ( ns ) interacts and explore the mechanism of ns in prostate cancer .
methods ns-specific short-hairpin rna expression plasmid was used to downregulate the ns level in pc-3 cells and the changes of cell cycle were studied .
after that , oligonucleotide dna microarray was used to screen the genome changes in pc-3 cells and quantitative real-time pcr was used to further confirm the differentially expressed genes .
results detection of cell cycle showed a decrease of s stage and an increase of g1 stage after downregulation of ns. 219 differentially expressed genes were found and these genes were involved in cell cycle , cell proliferation , signal transduction , cell apoptosis and cell differentiation , and so on .
genes related to cell cycle were discussed emphatically .
ink4 family genes ( p15 , p16 , p18 ) were upregulated while cyclin d1 hdac1 were downregulated .
these genes were tightly related to cdk4/6-cyclin d and prb-e2f1 complexes .
conclusion ns is an important g1/s checkpoint regulator and it could regulate cell cycles via a p53-independent pathway in prostate cancer .
a novel compound 2-arylidene-4,7-dimethyl indan-1-one synthesized was screened for anticancer effect against the human breast adenocarcinoma cell line , mcf-7 .
an ic50 value of &gt ; or = 80 microm , nontoxic to the normal breast cell line hbl-100 , showed complete inhibition of the mcf-7 cells .
analysis of mechanisms showed nuclear fragmentation and dna laddering in gel electrophoresis .
gsh and gr levels were found to be reduced after the compound treatment .
cell cycle analysis using fluorescent cytometry revealed g2/m phase arrest , which indicates the compound deserves consideration for further studies against cancer .
radiation-induced carcinogenesis is a major concern both for astronauts on long-term space missions and for cancer patients being treated with therapeutic radiation .
exposure to radiation induces oxidative stress and chronic inflammation , which are critical initiators and promoters of carcinogenesis .
many studies have demonstrated that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and antioxidants can reduce the risk of radiation-induced cancer .
in this study , we found that a synthetic triterpenoid , cddo-me ( bardoxolone methyl ) , was able to protect human colon epithelial cells ( hcecs ) against radiation-induced transformation .
hcecs that were immortalized by ectopic expression of htert and cdk4 and exhibit trisomy for chromosome 7 ( a non-random chromosome change that occurs in 37% of premalignant colon adenomas ) can be transformed experimentally with one combined exposure to 2 gy of protons at 1 gev/nucleon followed 24 h later by 50 cgy of ( 56)fe ions at 1 gev/nucleon .
transformed cells showed an increase in proliferation rate and in both anchorage-dependent and independent colony formation ability .
a spectrum of chromosome aberrations was observed in transformed cells , with 40% showing loss of 17p ( e.g. loss of one copy of p53 ) .
pretreatment of cells with pharmacological doses of cddo-me , which has been shown to induce antioxidative as well as anti-inflammatory responses , prevented the heavy-ion-induced increase in proliferation rate and anchorage-dependent and independent colony formation efficiencies .
taken together , these results demonstrate that experimentally immortalized human colon epithelial cells with a non-random chromosome 7 trisomy are valuable premalignant cellular reagents that can be used to study radiation-induced colorectal carcinogenesis .
the utility of premalignant hcecs to test novel compounds such as cddo-me that can be used to protect against radiation-induced neoplastic transformation is also demonstrated .
introduction the homeobox-containing transcription factor muscle segment homeobox 2 ( msx2 ) plays an important role in mammary gland development .
however , the clinical implications of msx2 expression in breast cancer are unclear .
the aims of this study were to investigate the potential clinical value of msx2 as a breast cancer biomarker and to clarify its functional role in vitro .
methods msx2 gene expression was first examined in a well-validated breast cancer transcriptomic dataset of 295 patients .
msx2 protein expression was then evaluated by immunohistochemistry in a tissue microarray ( tma ) containing 281 invasive breast tumours .
finally , to assess the functional role of msx2 in vitro , msx2 was ectopically expressed in a highly invasive breast tumour cell line ( mda-mb-231 ) and an immortalised breast cell line ( mcf10a ) , and these cell lines were examined for changes in growth rate , cell death and cell signalling .
results examination of msx2 mrna expression in a breast cancer transcriptomic dataset demonstrated that increased levels of msx2 were associated with good prognosis ( p = 0.011 ) .
evaluation of msx2 protein expression on a tma revealed that msx2 was detectable in both tumour cell nuclei and cytoplasm .
cytoplasmic msx2 expression was associated with low grade tumours ( p = 0.012 ) and ki67 negativity ( p = 0.018 ) .
nuclear msx2 correlated with low-grade tumours ( p = 0.015 ) , estrogen receptor positivity ( p = 0.038 ) , low ki67 ( p = 0.005 ) and high cyclin d1 expression ( p = 0.037 ) .
increased cytoplasmic msx2 expression was associated with a prolonged breast cancer-specific survival ( p = 0.049 ) , recurrence-free survival ( p = 0.029 ) and overall survival ( p = 0.019 ) .
ectopic expression of msx2 in breast cell lines resulted in radically decreased cell viability mediated by induction of cell death via apoptosis .
further analysis of msx2-expressing cells revealed increased levels of p21 and phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( erk ) and decreased levels of survivin and the ' split ends ' ( spen ) protein family member rbm15 .
conclusions we conclude that increased msx2 expression results in improved outcome for breast cancer patients , possibly by increasing the likelihood of tumour cell death by apoptosis .
this study aimed to investigate the mechanism by which the human lung cancer drug resistance-related gene bc006151 regulates chemosensitivity by down-regulating bc006151 expression via antisense gene transfer in h446/(c)ddp cells .
a retroviral vector containing the antisense bc006151 sequence was constructed and transfected into h446/(c)ddp cells .
transfection of the empty vector served as a negative control .
the two groups of transfected cells were treated with various chemotherapeutic agents , after which morphological changes in cell ultrastructure were compared by transmission electron microscopy , cell proliferation and chemosensitivity to particular chemotherapeutic agents were compared by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide method , the effects of chemotherapy on cell cycle and apoptosis were compared by flow cytometry , and bcl-2 was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis .
results showed that apoptotic body-like structures were identified by transmission electron microscopy in the antisense gene-transfected cells .
mtt founded that these cells exhibited a significantly lower level of proliferation than the control cells ( p&lt;0.01 ) , together with a markedly increased sensitivity to various chemotherapeutic agents ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
flow cytometry analysis revealed that a g1 phase arrest accounted for the reduction in proliferation in the antisense gene-transfected cells ; increased apoptosis was also detected ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
both immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis confirmed that bcl-2 expression was significantly down-regulated in the antisense gene-transfected cells compared to controls .
in a word , down-regulation of bc006151 can significantly inhibit proliferation and increase apoptosis of h446/(c)ddp cells after chemotherapy , and this gene may play an important role in the development of multidrug resistance in lung cancer .
the expression of " growth arrest and dna damage inducible genes 45 and 153 " is related to apoptotic induction of cells .
gadd45 is an effector gene of the tumor suppressor p53 , and gadd153 is associated with cellular function of cancer prevention .
curcumin , isolated from the plant curcuma longa ( linn ) , has been investigated as a promising cancer preventive in food because curcumin , a phenolic and coloring compound , is widely ingested in the indian subcontinent .
however , the exact mechanisms of action of curcumin have not yet been clearly elucidated .
based on our successful results with green tea catechins as cancer preventive , we studied the relationship between the expression of gadd45 and 153 and apoptotic induction in human lung cancer cell line pc-9 .
in our study curcumin increased the expression of gadd45 and 153 in a p53-independent manner .
curcumin also inhibited the growth of pc-9 cells and induced g(1)/s arrest of the cell-cycle followed by strong induction of apoptosis .
treatment with gadd45 and 153 small interfering rnas ( sirnas ) inhibited the apoptotic induction in pc-9 cells by curcumin .
moreover , curcumin induced the expression of cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor genes p21 and p27 , while it inhibited the expression of numerous genes , including bcl-2 , cyclin d1 , cdk2 , cdk4 and cdk6 .
all the results with pc-9 cells suggest that the up-regulation of gadd45 and 153 by curcumin is a prime mechanism in the anticancer activity of curcumin .
background the most deadly form of cancer is not lung or colon , breast or prostate ; it is any cancer that has become metastatic .
mortality due to metastatic melanoma , one of the most aggressive and deadly cancers , has increased steadily over the last several decades .
unfortunately , the arsenal of chemotherapeutic agents available today is most often unsuccessful at extending and improving the life expectancy of afflicted individuals .
we sought to identify an effective and nontoxic agent against metastatic melanoma .
methodology/principal findings we chose to study cloudman s-91 mouse melanoma cells ( sub-clone m3 , ccl53.1 ) because these cells are highly aggressive and metastatic , representing one of the deadliest types of cancer .
melanoma cells also had an experimental advantage because their morphology , which is easily monitored , relates to the physiology of metastatic cells and normal melanocytes .
we chose to test methyl sulfone as a chemotherapeutic agent for two reasons .
because of its chemical structure , we speculated a potential anti-cancer activity by targeting microtubules .
equally important , methyl sulfone has a well-established safety profile in humans .
surprisingly , we found that malignant melanoma cells exposed to methyl sulfone demonstrated the loss of phenotypes characteristic of malignant cells , and the reemergence of phenotypes characteristic of healthy melanocytes .
briefly , over time methyl sulfone induced contact inhibition , loss of ability to migrate through an extracellular matrix , loss of anchorage-independent growth , proper wound healing followed by contact inhibition , irreversible senescence followed by arborization with melanosomes in arbors as seen in normal melanocytes .
conclusions/significance methyl sulfone may have clinical potential as a non-toxic agent effective against metastatic melanoma .
additionally , methyl sulfone has promise as a tool to explore molecular mechanisms of metastatic transformation as well as fundamental processes such as cell migration , contact inhibition , wound healing and cellular senescence .
introduction her2 and estrogen receptor ( er ) are important in breast cancer and are therapeutic targets of trastuzumab ( herceptin ) and tamoxifen , respectively .
retinoids inhibit breast cancer growth , and modulate signaling by her2 and er .
we hypothesized that treatment with retinoids and simultaneous targeting of her2 and/or er may have enhanced anti-tumor effects .
methods the effects of retinoids combined with trastuzumab or tamoxifen were examined in two human breast cancer cell lines in culture , bt474 and skbr3 .
assays of proliferation , apoptosis , differentiation , cell cycle distribution , and receptor signaling were performed .
results in her2-overexpressing/er-positive bt474 cells , combining all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) with tamoxifen or trastuzumab synergistically inhibited cell growth , and altered cell differentiation and cell cycle .
only atra/trastuzumab-containing combinations induced apoptosis .
bt474 and her2-overexpressing/er-negative skbr3 cells were treated with a panel of retinoids ( atra , 9-cis-retinoic acid , 13-cis-retinoic acid , or n-(4-hydroxyphenyl) retinamide ( fenretinide ) ( 4-hpr) ) combined with trastuzumab .
in bt474 cells , none of the single agents except 4-hpr induced apoptosis , but again combinations of each retinoid with trastuzumab did induce apoptosis .
in contrast , the single retinoid agents did cause apoptosis in skbr3 cells ; this was only modestly enhanced by addition of trastuzumab .
the retinoid drug combinations altered signaling by her2 and er .
retinoids were inactive in trastuzumab-resistant bt474 cells .
conclusions combining retinoids with trastuzumab maximally inhibits cell growth and induces apoptosis in trastuzumab-sensitive cells .
treatment with such combinations may have benefit for breast cancer patients .
purpose the cytotoxic effect of the combination treatment of tnf-alpha and hyperthermia on l929 and tnf-alpha-resistant l929 ( rl929 ) cells was investigated .
materials and methods l929 cells were treated with tnf-alpha ( 5 ng/ml ) , heating at 43 degrees c or the combination of tnf-alpha and heating .
the cells were harvested at different time within the 24-hour period .
the viability and the type of cell death of the harvested cells were examined .
results when l929 cells were treated with a combination of tnf-alpha and heating the cells died quickly and apoptosis increased to an overwhelming extent , especially in the group pre-treated with tnf-alpha for 1 h prior to heating .
although rl929 cells were resistant to tnf-alpha alone , the cells became sensitive to tnf-alpha treatment when combined with heating .
similar to the l929 cell , the cells also died rapidly and exhibited apoptosis to a higher extent .
using an annexin-v-fitc kit and flow cytometer , we found that both necrosis and apoptosis occurred .
agarose gel electrophoresis of dna extracted from treated cells showed that the dna fragments were multiples of approximately 200 bp .
furthermore , by studying the kinetics of cell death and apoptosis , we found that the loss of cell membrane integrity preceded the dna fragmentation in both l929 and rl929 cells .
conclusion the results suggested that hyperthermia may enhance the necrotic and apoptotic effects of tnf-alpha on some tumour cells and overcome the resistance of some tumour cells to tnf-alpha .
chromosomal instability and the subsequent genetic mutations are considered to be critical factors in the development of the majority of solid tumors , but the mechanisms by which a stable diploid cell loses the ability to maintain genomic integrity are not well characterized .
we have approached this critical issue through the use of high-throughput screens in untransformed diploid epithelial cells .
in a screen of a cdna library , we identified 13 kinases whose overexpression leads to increased ploidy .
in a series of shrna screens , we identified 16 kinases whose loss leads to increased ploidy .
in both cdna and shrna screens , the majority of hits have not been linked previously to genomic stability .
we further show that sustained loss of the shrna screening hits leads to multipolar spindles and heterogeneous chromosome content , two characteristics of chromosomal instability .
loss of several of the kinases leads to loss of contact inhibition and to anchorage-independent growth , vital traits acquired during tumor development .
we anticipate that this work will serve as a template for the comprehensive identification of pathways whose dysregulation can drive tumorigenesis through impaired karyotypic maintenance .
taxol ( paclitaxel ) is an important natural product for the treatment of solid tumors such as ovarian , breast , non-small-cell lung tumors , and some head and neck carcinomas .
different concentrations of taxol trigger distinct effects on cell death forms .
in present study , cell counting kit ( cck-8 ) assay , confocal fluorescence microscopy imaging , flow cytometry ( fcm ) and western blotting ( wb ) analysis were used to analyze the characteristics of cell death induced by low ( 35 nm ) and high ( 70 microm ) concentration of taxol respectively in human lung adenocarcinoma ( astc-a-1 ) cells .
our results showed that low concentration of taxol induced cell death dominantly in apoptotic fashion associated with nuclear fragmentation , protein synthesis , phosphatidylserine ( ps ) externalization , g2/m cell cycle arrest , bax translocation into mitochondria and caspase-3 activation , whereas high concentration of this drug induced significant cytoplasm vacuolization , mitochondria swelling and paraptosis-like cell death form without protein synthesis that is necessary for paraptosis .
although the mechanism of high concentration of taxol-induced paraptosis-like cell death has not been clear , this finding might have a potential implication for cancer therapy , especially for apoptosis-resistant cancer .
the main objective of the present investigation was to study the urinary neopterin excretion in the context of the activation of the adaptive cellular immune system at the tumor site .
for this purpose , we compared pre-treatment urinary neopterin levels measured in 92 ovarian cancer patients , with intratumoral levels of mrna transcripts from factors either involved in the adaptive antitumor immune defense ( cd3 , ifn- , irf-1 , irf-2 , socs1 and inos ) or immune tolerance ( foxp3 ) .
this study did not reveal an association between urinary neopterin and one of these investigated " on tumor site transcripts " .
from all the factors reflecting the magnitude of the local adaptive antitumor response , intratumoral irf-1 expression above the edge of the 25th percentile was found to predict most reliably favorable progression-free ( median 34 months vs. 10 months ; p &lt ; 0.001 ) and overall ( median 52 months vs. 16 months ; p &lt ; 0.001 ) survival .
in contrast , pre-treatment urinary neopterin excretion above 275 mol/mol creatinine , which indicates an unspecific activation of the innate immune system , was associated with a very poor overall survival with a median of only 11 months when compared with a median overall survival of 40 months in patients with lower urinary neopterin excretion ( p = 0.021 ) .
interestingly , the considerable survival benefit in patients with high irf-1-expressing cancers was completely abrogated as well for progression-free as for overall survival when urinary neopterin concentrations were found to be concomitantly elevated .
these findings demonstrate that in ovarian carcinomas the unspecific " cancer-related inflammation " contributes to a significant subversion of the adaptive antitumor immune defense mounted at the tumor site .
single-nucleotide polymorphisms in genes involved in dna-damage-induced responses are reported frequently to be a risk factor in various cancer types .
here we analysed polymorphisms in 5 genes involved in dna repair ( xpd asp312asn and lys751gln , xrcc1 arg399gln , ape1 asp148glu , nbs1 glu185gln , and xpa g-4a ) and in a gene involved in regulation of the cell-cycle ( ccnd1 a870g ) .
we compared their frequencies in groups of colon , head and neck , and breast cancer patients , and 2 healthy control groups : ( 1 ) matched healthy polish individuals and ( 2 ) a ncbi database control group .
highly significant differences in the distribution of genotypes of the ape1 , xrcc1 and ccnd1 genes were found between colon cancer patients and healthy individuals .
the 148asp ape1 allele and the 399gln xrcc1 allele apparently increased the risk of colon cancer ( or = 1.9-2.3 and or = 1.5-2.1 , respectively ) .
additionally , frequencies of xpd genotypes differed between healthy controls and patients with colon or head and neck cancer .
importantly , no differences in the distribution of these polymorphisms were found between healthy controls and breast cancer patients .
the data clearly indicate that the risk of colon cancer is associated with single-nucleotide polymorphism in genes involved in base-excision repair and dna-damage-induced responses .
background in this report , we explored the role of pkcalpha and pkce as mediators of phorbol 12-myristate13-acetate ( pma)-induced proliferation in pituitary tumor gh3b6 cells , and determined if the erk1/2 and akt pathways were activated .
methods the gh3b6 cell proliferation was estimated by brdu incorporation and the cell cycle progression by flow cytometric cell cycle analysis .
we determined the expression of pkcalpha and pkce in membrane and cytosolic fractions by western blotting .
the subcellular redistribution of both pkc isozymes was analyzed by confocal microscopy .
results incubation with pma for 15 min stimulated pkcalpha and pkce activation , which was correlated with the phosphorylation of erk1/2 but not akt .
the activation of both these pkc isozymes was closely associated with the stimulation of proliferation and the cell cycle progression induced by pma in gh3b6 cells , an effect that was blocked by the inhibitors of pkcalpha ( g6976 ) and pkce ( ev1-2 ) .
in addition , the pretreatment with the inhibitor of erk1/2 ( pd98059 ) prevented the mitogenic activity induced by treatment with pma for 15 min .
conclusion we demonstrated that the activation of pkcalpha and pkce by phorbol ester in tumor pituitary gh3b6 cells led to cell proliferation and cell cycle progression , effects that involved erk1/2 activation .
in spite of numerous advances , the 5-year survival rate for head and neck squamous cell cancer has remained largely stagnant and few new anti-tumor drugs have been developed .
pch4 , a derivative of n-butylidenephthalide , has been investigated for its anti-tumor effects on oral squamous cell carcinoma ( oscc ) .
the aim of this study was to investigate the anti-tumor mechanism of a potential target gene , nur77 , in oscc cells , which can be induced by pch4 treatment .
data show that pch4 promoted nur77 translocation from the nucleus to the cytoplasm and induced cell apoptosis in oscc cells .
when nur77 translocation was blocked , the degree of tumor apoptosis caused by pch4 was significantly inhibited ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
within the mapk pathway , pch4 only induced jnk phosphorylation .
furthermore , treatment with a jnk inhibitor significantly reduced pch4-induced apoptosis ( p&lt;0.05 ) and decreased pch4-induced nur77 expression ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
in a xenograft animal model , administration of pch4 also showed anti-tumor effects .
we have demonstrated that oscc cells are sensitive to pch4 and that nur77 protein translocation from the nucleus to the cytoplasm might be associated with the induction of apoptosis by pch4 .
these results indicate that pch4 may serve as a potential anti-tumor drug for oscc therapy .
introduction natural herbal compounds with novel actions different from existing breast cancer ( bca ) treatment modalities are attractive for improving therapeutic efficacy and safety .
we have recently shown that penta-1,2,3,4,6-o-galloyl--d-glucose ( pgg ) induced s-phase arrest in prostate cancer ( pca ) cells through inhibiting dna replicative synthesis and g(1) arrest , in addition to inducing cell death at higher levels of exposure .
we and others have shown that pgg through intraperitoneal ( i.p. ) injection exerts a strong in vivo growth suppression of human pca xenograft models in athymic nude mice .
this study aims to test the hypothesis that the novel targeting actions of pgg are applicable to bca cells , especially those lacking proven druggable targets .
methods mono-layer cell culture models of p53-wild type estrogen receptor ( er)-dependent mcf-7 bca cells and p53-mutant er-/progesterone receptor ( pr)- and her2-regular ( triple-negative ) mda-mb-231 bca were exposed to pgg for a comprehensive investigation of cellular consequences and molecular targets/mediators .
to test the in vivo efficacy , female athymic mice inoculated with mda-mb-231 xenograft were treated with 20mg pgg/kg body weight by daily gavage starting 4 days after cancer cell inoculation .
results exposure to pgg induced s-phase arrest in both cell lines as indicated by the lack of 5-bromo2'-deoxy-uridine ( brdu ) incorporation into s-phase cells as well as g(1) arrest .
higher levels of pgg induced more caspase-mediated apoptosis in mcf-7 , in strong association with induction of p53 ser(15) phosphorylation , than in mda-mb-231 cells .
the cell cycle arrests were achieved without an induction of cyclin dependent kinase ( cdk ) inhibitory proteins p21(cip1) and p27(kip1) .
pgg treatment led to decreased cyclin d1 in both cell lines and over-expressing cyclin d1 attenuated g(1) arrest and hastened s arrest .
in serum-starvation synchronized mcf-7 cells , down-regulation of cyclin d1 was associated with de-phosphorylation of retinoblastoma ( rb ) protein by pgg shortly before g(1)-s transition .
in vivo , oral administration of pgg led to a greater than 60% inhibition of mda-mb231 xenograft growth without adverse effect on host body weight .
conclusions our in vitro and in vivo data support pgg as a potential drug candidate for breast cancer with novel targeting actions , especially for a triple negative bca xenograft model .
maintaining the integrity of the cell cycle is critical for ensuring that cells only undergo dna replication and proliferation under controlled conditions in response to discrete stimuli .
one mechanism by which the fidelity of this process is guaranteed is through the activation of cell cycle checkpoints .
the mitotic spindle checkpoint , which is regulated by aurora b kinase , ensures proper kinetochore attachment to chromosomes leading to equal distribution of chromosomes to daughter cells .
we demonstrated that the mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk ) cascade regulates mitotic progression and the spindle checkpoint .
as demonstrated by immunofluorescence at kinetochores , depletion of raf kinase inhibitory protein ( rkip ) , an inhibitor of raf/mek/erk signaling , causes an increase in mapk activity that inhibits aurora b kinase activity .
by monitoring mitotic index and transit time from nuclear envelope breakdown to anaphase , we demonstrated that rkip depletion leads to a defective spindle checkpoint and genomic instability , particularly in response to drugs that disrupt microtubule function .
verbascum thapsus commonly known as ' mullein ' is part of a large family of scrophulariaceae consisting of more than 360 species .
from antiquity verbascum thapsus has been used as a medicinal herb , it contains diverse polysaccharides , iroid glycosides , flavonoids , saponins , volatile oils and phenylentanoids .
inducible nitric oxide synthase ( inos ) represents one of the three isoforms that produce nitric oxide using l-arginine as a substrate in response to an increase in superoxide anion activated by nf-kb .
it is implicated in different pathophysiological events and its expression increases greatly during an inflammatory process , due to oxidative stress and the activation of the enzymes of the antioxidant network such as sod , cat and gpx.in this study an inflammatory state was reproduced by treating thp-1 cells ( human myelomonocytic leukaemia ) with pro-inflammatory stimuli , such as lps and ifn-gamma , obtaining an up-regulation both in the expression and in the activity of inos .
the aim of the work was to investigate the antiinflammatory action of verbascoside using a concentration of 100 mum .
the results show a significant decrease of the expression and activity of inos , extracellular o(2) ( - ) production , sod , cat and gpx activity when the cells were treated with verbascoside .
based on these results it is hypothesized that verbascoside has antiinflammatory properties since it reduces the production of superoxide radicals and consequently reduces the activity of inos .
purpose idarubicin is a synthetic anthracycline anticancer drug widely used in the treatment of some hematological malignancies .
the studies in our laboratory have clearly demonstrated that idarubicin can undergo reductive bioactivation by nadph-cytochrome p450 reductase to free radicals with resulting formation of dna strand breaks , which can potentially contribute to its genotoxic effects [ celik , h. , arin , e. , bioreduction of idarubicin and formation of ros responsible for dna cleavage by nadph-cytochrome p450 reductase and its potential role in the antitumor effect .
j pharm pharm sci , 11(4):68-82 , 2008 ] .
in the current study , our aim was to investigate the possible protective effects of several phenolic antioxidants , quercetin , rutin , naringenin , resveratrol and trolox , against the dna-damaging effect of idarubicin originating from its p450 reductase-catalyzed bioactivation .
methods dna damage was measured by detecting single-strand breaks in plasmid pbr322 dna using a cell-free agarose gel method .
results our results indicated that , among the compounds tested , quercetin was the most potent antioxidant in preventing dna damage .
quercetin significantly decreased the extent of dna strand breaks in a dose-dependent manner ; 100 microm of quercetin almost completely inhibited the dna strand breakage .
unlike quercetin , its glycosidated conjugate rutin , failed to provide any significant protection against idarubicin-induced dna strand breaks except at the highest concentration tested ( 2 mm ) .
the protective effects of other antioxidants were significantly less than that of quercetin even at high concentrations .
quercetin was found to be also an effective protector against dna damage induced by mitomycin c. conclusion we conclude that quercetin , one of the most abundant flavonoids in the human diet , is highly effective in reducing the dna damage caused by the antitumor agents , idarubicin and mitomycin c , following bioactivation by p450 reductase .
background cisplatin chemotherapy often causes acute kidney injury in cancer patients .
the causative mechanisms of cisplatin-induced acute kidney injury include renal inflammation , activation of p53 tumour suppressor protein and tubular apoptosis .
luteolin , a flavone found in medicinal herbs and plants , has been reported to exhibit anti-inflammatory , antioxidant and anticarcinogenic activities .
the purpose of this study was to investigate the anti-apoptotic effect of luteolin on cisplatin-induced acute kidney injury and the molecular mechanism .
methods c57bl/6 mice were treated with cisplatin ( 20 mg/kg ) with or without treatment with luteolin ( 50 mg/kg for 3 days ) .
renal function , histological changes , degree of oxidative stress and tubular apoptosis were examined .
the effects of luteolin on cisplatin-induced expression of renal p53 , puma- and bcl-2 family proteins were evaluated .
results treatment of mice with cisplatin resulted in renal damage , showing an increase in blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels , tubular damage , oxidative stress and apoptosis .
treatment of cisplatin-treated mice with luteolin significantly improved renal dysfunction , reducing tubular cell damage , oxidative stress and apoptosis .
examination of molecules involving apoptosis of the kidney revealed that treatment of cisplatin increased the levels of p53 and its phosphorylation , puma- , bax and caspase-3 activity that were significantly decreased by treatment with luteolin .
conclusion these results indicate that cisplatin induces acute kidney injury by regulation of p53-dependent renal tubular apoptosis and that luteolin ameliorates the cisplatin-mediated nephrotoxicity through down-regulation of p53-dependent apoptotic pathway in the kidney .
a 51-year-old previously healthy man , an ex-smoker , was admitted to the authors ' medical department with a 3-month history of dry cough ; intermittent fever ; painless , ulcerated cutaneous lesions over the trunk and limbs ( figure 1 ) ; and progressive weight loss .
he was of greek descent .
his medical history was remarkable for nasal polyps , which were surgically removed 15 years earlier .
initially , he had been treated with antibiotics , without improvement .
several days before admission , chest radiography revealed pulmonary infiltrates in the left lower lobe .
on admission , physical examination revealed a well-orientated man in mild distress , with inspiratory rhonchi at the lower part of the left lung and scattered erythematous nodules of variable size , some of which were ulcerated .
laboratory values were notable for leukopenia , 3.3 x 10(9)/l ; total protein , 5.9 g/dl ; globulin , 2.2 g/dl ; serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase , 86 iu/l ; serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase , 71 iu/l ; and lactate dehydrogenase , 519 u/l .
computed tomograph ( ct ) of the chest showed multiple alveolar opacities bilaterally ( figure 2 ) .
fiberoptic bronchoscopy did not reveal any important pathologic findings .
results of bronchial biopsy , cytology of bronchoalveolar lavage , washing , brushing , and sputum following bronchoscopy were negative .
ct of the brai and sinonasal area revealed an abnormal low-density mass in the left nasal area .
ct findings of the abdomen were negative , as were results of a bone marrow biopsy .
there was no evidence of immunosuppression .
the differential diagnosis , considering the evidence described , included granulomatous or infectious diseases , angiocentric lymphoproliferative lesions , and lymphomas .
biopsy of a skin lesion showed lymphoproliferative infiltration of the dermis with a follicular and angiocentric growth pattern and regional epidermal necrosis .
immunohistochemical stains showed that the tumor cell were positive for cd56 and cd3 ( cytoplasmic positivity ) and expressed the cytotoxic proteins t-cell intracellular antigen and granzyme b ( figure 3 ) they lacked tdt , cd34 , cd7 , cd8 , tcl-1 , and cd123 .
findings from an in situ hybridization study for epstein-barr virus were negative .
give this result , molecular analysis oft-cell receptor ( tcr ) gene rearrangements was performed using polymerase chain reaction-based tcr-gamma gene , wit negative results .
the morphology and the immunophenotype were consistent with natural killer/t-cell lymphoma , nasal-type .
nasal involvement must be first excluded to proceed to the diagnosis of nasal-type natural killer-cell lymphoma .
indeed , histologic examination of the nasal mass revealed its polypoid nature .
thus , the authors were led to the diagnosis of extranodal extranasal natural killer/t-cell lymphoma , nasal-type , cd56-positive , ep stein-barr virus-negative , tcr-negative .
the patient received combination chemotherapy and completed 4 cycles of cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin vincristine , and prednisone every 14 days for 2 months .
skin lesions improved , and there was no fever soon after the initiation of therapy .
reevaluatio after the fourth cycle , however , disclosed pulmonary infiltrations as well as leukemic infiltration of the central nervous system .
the patient had receive systemic salvage chemotherapy and intrathecal infusions of methotrexate .
although the lung lesions had diminished at that time , the patient develope paraplegia , his clinical course rapidly deteriorated , and he eventually died .
progression of breast cancer is associated with remodeling of the extracellular matrix , often involving a switch from estrogen dependence to a dependence on egf receptor ( egfr)/her-2 and is accompanied by increased expression of the main binding protein for insulin-like growth factors ( igfbp-3 ) .
we have examined the effects of igfbp-3 on egf responses of breast epithelial cells in the context of changes in the extracellular matrix .
on plastic and laminin with mcf-10a normal breast epithelial cells , egf and igfbp-3 each increased cell growth and together produced a synergistic response , whereas with t47d breast cancer cells igfbp-3 alone had no effect , but the ability of egf to increase cell proliferation was markedly inhibited in the presence of igfbp-3 .
in contrast on fibronectin with mcf-10a cells , igfbp-3 alone inhibited cell growth and blocked egf-induced proliferation .
with the cancer cells , igfbp-3 alone had no effect but enhanced the egf-induced increase in cell growth .
the insulin-like growth factor-independent effects of igfbp-3 alone on cell proliferation were completely abrogated in the presence of an egfr , tyrosine kinase inhibitor , iressa .
although igfbp-3 did not affect egfr phosphorylation [ tyr(1068) ] , it was found to modulate receptor internalization and was associated with activation of rho and subsequent changes in mapk phosphorylation .
the levels of fibronectin and igfbp-3 within breast tumors may determine their dependence on egfr and their response to therapies targeting this receptor .
aims treatment decisions are difficult in clinically localised prostate cancer and further biomarkers of aggressive behaviour are required .
we investigated the hypothesis that the tissue expression of three cell cycle markers , rb , p21 and p16 , would provide helpful prognostic information in a well characterised series of prostate cancers which were clinically localised and treated conservatively .
methods the immunohistochemical staining expression of these markers was assessed in tissue microarrays and correlated with 10 year prostate cancer survival and overall survival and then compared with pathological data including contemporary gleason score , age , measures of tumour extent and initial serum prostate specific antigen ( psa ) level .
results rb overexpression did not show any significant association with gleason score or prostate cancer survival. p21 protein expression showed a significant association with prostate cancer survival ( p=0.02 ) and overall survival ( p=0.01 ) in a univariate model but not in a multivariate model with pathological and serum psa data .
there was a significant association between p16 cytoplasmic expression and prostate cancer survival ( hr=2.52 , 95%ci= 1.79-3.55 , p&lt;0.001 ) and overall survival ( hr= 1.54 , 95% ci=1.20-1.98 , p=0.001 ) in a univariate model. p16 expression remained an independent prognostic factor for prostate cancer survival ( hr=1.50 , 95%ci=1.05-2.14 , p=0.03 ) .
conclusion we conclude that p16 cytoplasmic expression can be used as a predictor of outcome in conservatively treated prostate cancer .
rb and p21 show no independent association with outcome and therefore further research is not warranted .
cytokeratin ( ck ) 19-positive hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) has been reported to have a poor prognosis .
the mechanism of the development of ck19-positive hcc remains to be studied .
to clarify this , in vitro experiments were performed using human hcc cell lines ( plc-5 , hepg2 ) , and the phenotypic changes after stimulation with several growth factors were examined using quantitative reverse transcriptase pcr , western blotting , and immunofluorescence staining .
in vivo experiments using human hcc specimens obtained from a total of 78 patients and clinicopathological analysis were also performed .
among the growth factors tested , epidermal growth factor ( egf ) had prominent effects on inducing ck19 expression in plc-5 and hepg2 , which was accompanied by the reduced expression of -fetoprotein in plc-5 .
the induction of ck19 expression after egf stimulation was accompanied by the phosphorylation of c-jun-n-terminal kinase ( jnk)/stress-activated protein kinase , which was blocked by the addition of jnk inhibitors .
egf also increased proliferative abilities and invasive properties of the hcc cell lines .
in vivo , 9 ( 12% ) of 78 hcc cases showed positive immunohistochemical staining of ck19 .
the extent of positive immunohistochemical signals of egf , egf receptor ( egfr ) , and jnk expression was significantly intense in ck-19-positive hcc than those of ck19-negative hcc .
clinicopathological analysis showed that ck19-positive hcc had a high incidence of portal vein invasion , extrahepatic metastasis and an early relapse , which was associated with the worsened 2-year disease free survival .
these results indicate that the activation of the egf-egfr signaling pathway is associated with the development of ck19-positive hcc , and the egf-induced increase in growth abilities of hcc may account for the poor prognosis of the patients .
in this study , we compared the effects of ski-606 with iressa , src/abl and egf-r kinase inhibitors , respectively , on selected parameters in hela and siha cervical cancer cell lines , which express e6/e7 oncoproteins of high-risk hpv types 18 and 16 , respectively .
our results show that ski-606 and iressa inhibit cell proliferation and provoke g(0)-g(1) cell cycle arrest and reduction of s and g(2)-m phase using 2 and 5m concentrations of these inhibitors .
in contrast , ski-606 induces differentiation to an epithelial phenotype " mesenchymal-epithelial transition " ; thus ski-606 causes a dramatic decrease in cell motility and invasion abilities of hela and siha cancer cells , in comparison to untreated cells and iressa-treated cells in which these parameters are only slightly affected .
these changes are accompanied by a regulation of the expression patterns of e-cadherin and catenins .
the molecular pathway analysis of src/abl inhibitor revealed that ski-606 blocks the phosphorylation of -catenin and consequently converts its role from a transcriptional regulator to a cell-cell adhesion molecule .
our findings indicate that ski-606 inhibits signaling pathways involved in regulating tumor cell migration and invasion genes via -catenin alteration , suggesting that src inhibitor , in comparison to egf-r , is a promising therapeutic agent for human cervical cancer .
unlike the growth factor dependence of normal cells , cancer cells can maintain growth factor-independent glycolysis and survival through expression of oncogenic kinases , such as bcr-abl .
although targeted kinase inhibition can promote cancer cell death , therapeutic resistance develops frequently , and further mechanistic understanding is needed .
cell metabolism may be central to this cell death pathway , as we have shown that growth factor deprivation leads to decreased glycolysis that promotes apoptosis via p53 activation and induction of the proapoptotic protein puma .
here , we extend these findings to show that elevated glucose metabolism , characteristic of cancer cells , can suppress protein kinase c ( pkc)-dependent p53 activation to maintain cell survival after growth factor withdrawal .
in contrast , dna damage-induced p53 activation was pkc independent and was not metabolically sensitive .
both stresses required p53 ser(18) phosphorylation for maximal activity but led to unique patterns of p53 target gene expression , showing distinct activation and response pathways for p53 that were differentially regulated by metabolism .
consistent with oncogenic kinases acting to replace growth factors , treatment of bcr-abl-expressing cells with the kinase inhibitor imatinib led to reduced metabolism and p53- and puma-dependent cell death .
accordingly , maintenance of glucose uptake inhibited p53 activation and promoted imatinib resistance .
furthermore , inhibition of glycolysis enhanced imatinib sensitivity in bcr-abl-expressing cells with wild-type p53 but had little effect on p53-null cells .
these data show that distinct pathways regulate p53 after dna damage and metabolic stress and that inhibiting glucose metabolism may enhance the efficacy of and overcome resistance to targeted molecular cancer therapies .
aberrant expression and polymorphism of fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 ( fgfr4 ) has been linked to tumor progression and anticancer drug resistance .
we describe here a novel mechanism of tumor progression by matrix degradation involving epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in response to membrane-type 1 matrix metalloproteinase ( mt1-mmp , mmp-14 ) induction at the edge of tumors expressing the fgfr4-r388 risk variant .
both fgfr4 and mt1-mmp were upregulated in tissue biopsies from several human cancer types including breast adenocarcinomas , where they were partially coexpressed at the tumor/stroma border and tumor invasion front .
the strongest overall coexpression was found in prostate carcinoma .
studies with cultured prostate carcinoma cell lines showed that the fgfr4-r388 variant , which has previously been associated with poor cancer prognosis , increased mt1-mmp-dependent collagen invasion .
in this experimental model , knockdown of fgfr4-r388 or mt1-mmp by rna interference blocked tumor cell invasion and growth in collagen .
this was coupled with impaired phosphorylation of fgfr substrate 2 and src , upregulation of e-cadherin , and suppression of cadherin-11 and n-cadherin .
these in vitro results were substantiated by reduced mt1-mmp content and in vivo growth of prostate carcinoma cells after the fgfr4-r388 gene silencing .
in contrast , knockdown of the alternative fgfr4-g388 allele enhanced mt1-mmp and invasive tumor cell growth in vivo and within three-dimensional collagen .
these results will help to explain the reported association of the fgfr4-r388 variant with the progression and poor prognosis of certain types of tumors .
current palliative chemotherapy ( ct ) regimens achieve clinical benefits in less than 50% of patients treated for metastatic gastric cancers , and long-term survivals are anecdotical .
genetic polymorphisms and differences at the level of transcription in genes involved in biological processes of drug metabolism , dna repair and drug resistance can explain the observed individual differences in response to drugs , in survival and in different susceptibility to the toxic effects of ct .
the possibility to classify patients on the basis of genetic signatures could help in choosing the ct regimen .
we present herein an analysis of genetic and expression profiling of three patients affected by metastatic gastric cancer , treated with ct and alive , disease-free , at 66-82 months .
four patients with typical clinical outcome represented the control group .
expression profiling from paraffin-embedded tumor tissues was performed on an ad hoc set of genes involved in drug metabolism and resistance , dna repair , cell cycle regulation and growth factors signalling .
genetic polymorphism analysis on dna extracted from peripheral blood was done by pyrosequencing of genetic markers predictive of drug response .
expression analysis in long-term survivors revealed a significant upregulation of pten , tp63 , gadd45a and mapk1 genes .
we found also an upregulation of cyp1a1 , cyp3a4 and erbb4 genes .
egf was found to be down-regulated in long-term survivors .
ercc1 c8092a polymorphism seems to be associated with survival in our set of patients .
the present study shed light on a set of genes , which could have a predictive role in survival of patients with metastatic gastric tumors .
cancer cells undergo multi-step processes in obtaining the ability to metastasize , and are constantly exposed to signals that induce apoptosis .
acquisition of anti-apoptotic properties by cancer cells is important for metastasis , and recent studies suggest that transforming growth factor ( tgf)- promotes the survival of certain types of cancer cells .
here , we found that in highly metastatic breast cancer cells , jygmc(a) , jygmc(b) and 4t1 , tgf- ligands were produced in autocrine fashion .
pharmacological inhibition of endogenous tgf- signalling by a tgf- type i receptor kinase inhibitor in serum-free conditions increased the expression of bh3-only protein , bim ( also known as bcl2-like 11 ) in jygmc(a) and jygmc(b) cells , and caused apoptotic cell death .
we also found that induction of bim by tgf- was not observed in foxc1 knocked-down cancer cells .
these findings suggest that tgf- plays a crucial role in the regulation of survival of certain types of cancer cells through the tgf--foxc1-bim pathway , and that specific inhibitors of tgf- signalling might be useful as apoptosis inducers in breast cancer cells .
hypoxiareoxygenation ( hr ) is a primary driver of angiogenesis in both atherogenesis and tumorigenesis .
the main target of hypoxia-driven proangiogenic signaling is adherens junctions responsible for contact inhibition of endothelial cells .
we analyzed the effects of hypoxia ( 812 hours ) followed by a brief period of reoxygenation ( 2 hours ) ( hr ) on angiogenesis and integrity of adherens junction in cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells as well as the effects of aspirin on modulation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells ' response to hr .
cells exposed to hr displayed considerable enhancement of tube formation ( angiogenesis ) on matrigel .
immunocytostaining of near-confluent cells revealed that hr caused disruption of adherens junctions and internalization of their components ve-cadherin , p120 catenin , and b-catenin .
additionally , hr resulted in the appearance of binucleated cells , and ve-cadherin in colocalization with b-catenin was found to be positioned between the separating nuclei .
presence of aspirin ( acetylsalicylic acid , 1 mm ) resulted in preservation of adherens junctions on the cellular membrane and prevented angiogenesis as well as mitosis .
hr caused upregulation lox-1 , the p47(phox) subunit of nadph , while reducing transcription of endothelial nitric oxide synthase .
aspirin had no effect on endothelial nitric oxide synthase and canceled the transcriptional activation of the lox-1 and p47(phox) subunit of nadph oxidase .
based on these data , we hypothesize that aspirin preserves the integrity of adherens junctions and thus blunts angiogenic response to hr through downregulation of lox-1 and the lox-1-mediated p47(phox) component of nadph oxidase transcription , thus preventing nadph oxidase assembly and function .
myxoid leiomyosarcoma is an extremely rare variant of leiomyosarcoma , masquerading almost to perfection as a benign lesion .
for , indeed , the tumor lacks the defining features of high mitotic activity , cellular atypia or necrosis , and the microscopic picture is dominated by abundant myxoid stroma containing sparse spindle cells .
we report here such a case occurring in the uterus and discuss the differential diagnosis .
the relevant literature is reviewed .
estrogen receptor  ( er ) expression in breast cancer is predictive of response to endocrine therapy ; however , resistance is common in er-positive tumors that overexpress the growth factor receptor erbb2 .
even in the absence of estrogen , er can be activated by growth factors , including the epidermal growth factor ( egf ) .
egf induces a transcriptional program distinct from estrogen ; however , the mechanism of the stimulus-specific response is unknown .
here we show that the egf-induced er genomic targets , its cistromes , are distinct from those induced by estrogen in a process dependent on the transcription factor ap-1 .
the egf-induced er cistrome specifically regulates genes found overexpressed in erbb2-positive human breast cancers .
this provides a potential molecular explanation for the endocrine therapy resistance seen in er-positive breast cancers that overexpress erbb2 .
these results suggest a central role for er in hormone-refractory breast tumors dependent on growth factor pathway activation and favors the development of therapeutic strategies completely antagonizing er , as opposed to blocking its estrogen responsiveness alone .
the aim of this study was to determine whether isorhamnetin , an immediate 3'-o-methylated metabolite of quercetin , affects proliferation , cell death , and the cell cycle of human colon carcinoma ( hct-116 ) cells .
isorhamnetin was found to be a potent antiproliferative agent in a dose- and time-dependent manner , with an ic50 of 72 m after 48 h of incubation as estimated by mtt assay .
flow cytometry and fluorescence microscopy analysis showed that isorhamnetin exerted a stimulatory effect on apoptosis and necrosis .
isorhamnetin also increased the number of cells in g2/m phase .
serum deprivation appeared to potentiate the effects of isorhamnetin on cell death and facilitated cell cycle progression to g0/g1 phase .
these results suggest that isorhamnetin might mediate inhibition of hct-116 cell growth through the perturbation of cell cycle progression and are consistent with the notion that g2/m checkpoints could be a conserved target for flavonoids in human colon cancer cells , leading to apoptotic and necrotic death .
these antiproliferative , apoptotic , necrotic , and cell cycle effects suggest that isorhamnetin may have clinically significant therapeutic and chemopreventive capabilities .
to our knowledge , this is the first report of the effect of isorhamnetin on human colon cancer cells .
spindle cell oncocytoma ( sco ) of the pituitary gland is a relatively recently established , very rare subtype of adenohypophysis tumours that was introduced as a distinct clinicopathological entity in the fourth edition of who classification of the central nervous system tumours ( 2007 ) .
it is non-endocrine neoplasm of the anterior pituitary that occurs in adults and usually follows a benign clinical course , corresponding to who grade i. up to now , pituitary sco have been reported occasionally and only 14 cases of sco have been documented in the literature .
because of their rarity , the pathogenesis and natural history of these tumours have not been fully characterized .
we report two additional cases of sco occurring in females aged 63 years ( case 1 ) and 65 years ( case 2 ) , who presented with pan-hypopituitarism , headache and visual field defect .
in both cases , the magnetic resonance imaging showed solid sellar mass of moderate size with suprasellar extension .
the clinical and radiological features suggested non-functioning pituitary macroadenomas without evidence of invasive growth .
one patient presented with tumour recurrence 3 years after undergoing the previous surgical removal of tumour , which was initially misdiagnosed as schwannoma .
the first tumour was removed by transsphenoidal surgery and the second one by frontal craniotomy .
histologically and immunohistochemically , both tumours displayed the features typical for sco of the pituitary .
they were composed of interwoven fascicles of spindle cells exhibiting abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm of oncocytic or granular appearance .
mitoses were rarely observed and necrosis was absent .
in one case , the advanced lymphocytic infliltration was observed within neoplastic tissue .
the tumour cells exhibited immunoreactivity for s-100 protein , galectin-3 , vimentin and epithelial membrane antigen but they were negative for gfap , anterior pituitary neuroendocrine markers ( prolactin , growth hormone , tsh , acth , fsh , lh ) , chromogranin , synaptophysin , cytokeratin ck ( ae1/ae3 ) , smooth muscle actin , desmin , cd34 and cd68 .
mib1 labeling index did not exceed 10% .
ultrastructurally , the tumour cells were rich in mitochondria with lamellar cristae .
moreover , in case 2 some tumour cells showed a number of giant mitochondria with severely destructed internal matrix .
spindle cell oncocytoma of the anterior pituitary is often misdiagnosed entity of uncertain histogenesis .
it should be considered in the differential diagnosis of various sellar-region lesions of oncocytic morphology .
reciprocity of inflammation , oxidative stress and neovascularization is emerging as an important mechanism underlying numerous processes from tissue healing and remodelling to cancer progression .
whereas the mechanism of hypoxia-driven angiogenesis is well understood , the link between inflammation-induced oxidation and de novo blood vessel growth remains obscure .
here we show that the end products of lipid oxidation , -(2-carboxyethyl)pyrrole ( cep ) and other related pyrroles , are generated during inflammation and wound healing and accumulate at high levels in ageing tissues in mice and in highly vascularized tumours in both murine and human melanoma .
the molecular patterns of carboxyalkylpyrroles are recognized by toll-like receptor 2 ( tlr2 ) , but not tlr4 or scavenger receptors on endothelial cells , leading to an angiogenic response that is independent of vascular endothelial growth factor .
cep promoted angiogenesis in hindlimb ischaemia and wound healing models through myd88-dependent tlr2 signalling .
neutralization of endogenous carboxyalkylpyrroles impaired wound healing and tissue revascularization and diminished tumour angiogenesis .
both tlr2 and myd88 are required for cep-induced stimulation of rac1 and endothelial migration .
taken together , these findings establish a new function of tlr2 as a sensor of oxidation-associated molecular patterns , providing a key link connecting inflammation , oxidative stress , innate immunity and angiogenesis .
background human barrett's cancer cell lines have numerous , poorly-characterized genetic abnormalities and , consequently , those lines have limited utility as models for studying the early molecular events in carcinogenesis .
cell lines with well-defined genetic lesions that recapitulate various stages of neoplastic progression in barrett's esophagus would be most useful for such studies .
methodology/principal findings to develop such model cell lines , we started with telomerase-immortalized , non-neoplastic barrett's epithelial ( bar-t ) cells , which are spontaneously deficient in p16 , and proceeded to knock down p53 using rnai , to activate ras by introducing oncogenic h-ras(g12v) , or both .
bar-t cells infected with either p53 rnai or oncogenic h-ras(g12v) alone maintained cell-to-cell contact inhibition and did not exhibit anchorage-independent growth in soft agar .
in contrast , the combination of p53 rnai knockdown with expression of oncogenic h-ras(g12v) transformed the p16-deficient bar-t cells , as evidenced by their loss of contact inhibition , by their formation of colonies in soft agar , and by their generation of tumors in immunodeficient mice .
conclusions/significance through these experiments , we have generated a number of transformed and non-transformed cell lines with well-characterized genetic abnormalities recapitulating various stages of carcinogenesis in barrett's esophagus .
these lines should be useful models for the study of carcinogenesis in barrett's esophagus , and for testing the efficacy of chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic agents .
autophagy is one of the survival processes of cancer cells , especially in stressful conditions such as starvation , hypoxia and chemotherapeutic agents .
however , its roles in tumor survival have not yet been fully elucidated .
here , we found for the first time that jak2/stat3 was activated in hela cells when they were starved or treated with rapamycin .
stat3 activation was associated with autophagic processes , because it was completely inhibited by 3-methyladenine , partially inhibited by knockdown of molecules associated with autophagic processes and blocked by antioxidants , dpi , a nox inhibitor and knockdown of p22 phox , indicating that ros generated by nox that was activated during autophagic processes activated jak2/stat3 pathway .
activated stat3 directly bound to il6 promoter and increased il6 mrna and protein secretion .
finally , the conditioned media , which included il6 , from starved hela cells promoted cancer cell survival in both normal and starved conditions , confirmed by clonogenic , proliferation and cell death assays .
these data together indicate that the autophagic process in cancer cells can contribute to their survival by jak2/stat3 activation and subsequent secretion of growth factors .
diallyl disulfide ( dads ) is a major organo-sulfur compound derived from garlic ( allium sativum ) , which inhibits the proliferation of various types of cancer cells .
in this study we investigated the effect of dads on the induction of apoptosis , as well as its regulatory effect on the activation of transcription factors in b16f-10 melanoma cells .
treatment of b16f-10 cells with nontoxic concentrations of dads resulted in the presence of apoptotic bodies and induced dna fragmentation in a dose-dependent manner .
cell-cycle analysis revealed that the occurrence of the sub-g1 peak was significantly elevated in dads-treated cells .
dads treatment also down-reguated bcl-2 expression and up-regulated p53 , caspase-9 , and caspase-3 expression in b16f-10 melanoma cells .
the study also reveals that dads inhibited the activation and nuclear translocation of p65 , p50 , and c-rel subunits of nuclear factor ( nf)-b and other transcription factors , such as c-fos , activated transcription factor-2 , and cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein , in b16f-10 melanoma cells the pro-inflammatory cytokine production and gene expression of tumor necrosis factor ( tnf)- , interleukin ( il)-1 , il-6 , and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) were down-regulated in dads-treated cells compared with control b16f-10 metastatic melanoma cells .
dads induces caspase-dependent apoptosis through a mitochondria-mediated intrinsic pathway in b16f-10 melanoma cells by activating p53 and caspase-3 gene expression and suppressing pro-inflammatory cytokines and nf-b-mediated bcl-2 activation .
ultraviolet ( uv ) light induces dna-damage checkpoints and mutagenesis , which are involved in cancer protection and tumorigenesis , respectively .
how cells identify dna lesions and convert them to checkpoint-activating structures is a major question .
we show that during repair of uv lesions in noncycling cells , exo1-mediated processing of nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) intermediates competes with repair dna synthesis .
impediments of the refilling reaction allow exo1 to generate extended ssdna gaps , detectable by electron microscopy , which drive mec1 kinase activation and will be refilled by long-patch repair synthesis , as shown by dna combing .
we provide evidence that this mechanism maybe stimulated by closely opposing uv lesions , represents a strategy to redirect problematic repair intermediates to alternative repair pathways , and may also be extended to physically different dna damages .
our work has significant implications for understanding the coordination between repair of dna lesions and checkpoint pathways to preserve genome stability .
base analogs are powerful antimetabolites and dangerous mutagens generated endogenously by oxidative stress , inflammation , and aberrant nucleotide biosynthesis .
human inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase ( itpa ) hydrolyzes triphosphates of noncanonical purine bases ( i.e. , itp , ditp , xtp , dxtp , or their mimic : 6-hydroxyaminopurine ( hap ) deoxynucleoside triphosphate ) and thus regulates nucleotide pools and protects cells from dna damage .
we demonstrate that the model purine base analog hap induces dna breaks in human cells and leads to elevation of levels of itpa .
a human polymorphic allele of the itpa , 94c-&gt;a encodes for the enzyme with a p32t amino-acid change and leads to accumulation of nonhydrolyzed itp .
the polymorphism has been associated with adverse reaction to purine base-analog drugs .
the level of both spontaneous and hap-induced dna breaks is elevated in the cell line with the itpa p32t variant .
the results suggested that human itpa plays a pivotal role in the protection of dna from noncanonical purine base analogs .
overexpression of the melanoma differentiation associated gene-7 ( mda-7)/il-24 in vitro generally results in the growth suppression and induction of apoptosis of diverse human tumor cells .
in this study , we investigated the effects of overexpression of the mda-7/il-24 gene in human hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) cells in vitro and in vivo .
adenovirus-mediated overexpression of mda-7 facilitated the mda-7/il-24-induced apoptosis and g2/m arrest in hcc cells , but not in the normal liver cell line l02 , and the effect was independent of the p53 status .
inhibition of metastasis and angiogenesis was correlated with decreasing expression of stat3 , p-stat3 , mmp-2 , vegf , and tgf-beta genes , regulated by stat3 in mhcclm6 cells .
we also showed that ad.mda-7 combined with doxorubicin ( adm ) had significantly enhanced antitumor and antimetastatic effects in vivo , accompanied by the downregulation of vegf , mmp-2 , and tgf-beta genes and the upregulation of e-cadherin genes .
these data suggested that mda-7/il-24 induces its selective antitumor properties in hcc cells by promoting apoptosis independent of p53 status , inhibiting subcutaneous tumor growth and metastasis , and increasing the effect of chemotherapeutic agents .
mda-7/il-24 represents a new class of cancer suppressor genes that may be useful in the targeted therapy of hcc .
background ginkgolic acids ( gas ) , extracted from the seed coat of ginkgo biloba l. our previous study has shown that ga monomer could inhibit the growth of hep-2 significantly and induce the fragmentation of the chromosomal dna .
to further assess the antitumor potential and turn it into a candidate new antitumor drug , the antitumor mechanism of ga was investigated .
method the cytotoxicity and antitumor effect of ga monomer were assayed by mtt colorimetric assay with nontumorogenic mc-3t3-e1 as well as tumorogenic hep-2 and tac8113 cell lines .
the effect of ga monomer on the proliferation of tumor cell lines was analyzed with mtt colorimetric and cfse labeled assay .
cell cycle distribution and measurement of the percentage of apoptotic cells were performed by flow cytometry following stained with propidium iodide , annexin v-fitc .
the expression of apoptotic proteins bcl-2 , bax and caspase-3 was analyzed with western blot .
result ga only inhibited the growth of tumorogenic cell lines in a both dose- and time-dependent manner .
tumor cells were treated with ga for 72 h , 70.53  4.54% hep-2 and 63.5  7.2% tca8113 cells were retarded at go/g1 phase , and the percentage of apoptosis was 40.4  1.58 and 38.4  1.7% , respectively .
ga-treated activated caspase-3 downregulated the expression of anti-apoptotic bcl-2 protein and upregulated the expression of pro-apoptotic bax protein , eventually leading to a decrease in the bcl-2/bax ratio in tumor cells .
conclusions the antitumor action of ga was due to inhibiting the proliferation in a manner of inhibiting division , retarding the progress of cell cycle and inducing apoptosis , making ga a candidate as new antitumor drug .
the multi-kinase inhibitor dasatinib induced a variable but significant decrease of viability in both p53(wild-type) ( eheb , jvm-2 , jvm-3 ) and p53(mutated) ( mec-1 , mec-2 , bjab ) prolymphocytic b leukemic cells , due to a combination of cell cycle block in g1 and apoptosis .
antibody phospho-kinase array analysis revealed that dasatinib inhibited the phosphorylation of various kinases , including erk1/2 and p38/mapk as well as of stat3 transcription factors , in both p53(wild-type) and p53(mutated) cells .
therefore , dasatinib might offer a novel therapeutic strategy not only for p53(wild-type) , but also for p53(mutated) b malignancies that have the worst prognosis and urgently need innovative therapeutic approaches .
ceramide induces cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death associated with increased levels of p27(kip1) .
the aim of this study was to examine the effects of ceramide on p27(kip1) protein levels as a measure of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis .
results showed that ceramide increased p27(kip1) protein levels through activation of protein phosphatase 2a ( pp2a ) in pc-3 prostate cancer cells .
treatment of cells with the pp2a inhibitor okadaic acid or with pp2a-c sirna inhibited ceramide-induced enhanced p27(kip1) protein expression and akt dephosphorylation , and prevented skp2 downregulation .
overexpression of constitutively active akt attenuated ceramide-induced skp2 downregulation and p27(kip1) upregulation .
in addition , ceramide stimulated binding of the pp2a catalytic subunit pp2a-c to akt as assessed by immunoprecipitation experiments , indicating that pp2a is involved in the induction of p27(kip1) via inhibition of akt pathway .
finally , whether pp2a can regulate p27(kip1) expression independently of akt pathway was determined .
knockdown of pp2a-c with sirna reduced p27(kip1) levels in the presence of akt inhibitor .
these data reveal that pp2a is a regulator of ceramide-induced p27(kip1) expression via akt-dependent and akt-independent pathways .
set and mynd domain-containing protein 3 ( smyd3 ) is a histone methyltransferase that plays an important role in transcriptional regulation in human carcinogenesis .
it can specifically methylate histone h3 at lysine 4 and activate the transcription of a set of downstream genes , including several oncogenes ( e.g. , n-myc , crkl , wnt10b , riz and htert ) and genes involved in the control of cell cycle ( e.g. , cycling1 and cdk2 ) and signal transduction ( e.g. , stat1 , map3k11 and pik3cb ) .
to determine the effects of smyd3 over-expression on cell proliferation , we transfected smyd3 into mda-mb-231 cells and found that these cells showed several transformed phenotypes as demonstrated by colony growth in soft agar .
besides , we show here that down-regulation of smyd3 could induce g1-phase cell cycle arrest , indicating the potent induction of apoptosis by smyd3 knockdown .
these results suggest the regulatory mechanisms of smyd3 on the acceleration of cell cycle and facilitate the development of strategies that may inhibit the progression of cell cycle in breast cancer cells .
signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 ( stat3 ) is activated by cytokines and growth factors in lung cancers and regulates expression of genes implicated in cell growth , survival , and transformation .
previously , we found that mice with a deletion of the g protein-coupled receptor , family c , group 5 , member a ( gprc5a ) gene develop lung tumors , indicating that gprc5a is a tumor suppressor .
herein , we show that epithelial cells from gprc5a knockout mouse lung ( gprc5a(-/-) cells ) survive better in vitro in medium deprived of exogenous growth factors and form more colonies in semisolid medium than their counterparts from wild-type mice ( gprc5a(+/+) cells ) .
stat3 tyrosine 705 phosphorylation and expression of several stat3-regulated antiapoptotic genes were higher in gprc5a(-/-) than in gprc5a(+/+) cells .
both cell types secreted leukemia inhibitory factor ( lif ) ; however , whereas stat3 activation was persistent in gprc5a(-/-) cells , it was transient in gprc5a(+/+) cells .
lung adenocarcinoma cells isolated from gprc5a(-/-) mice also exhibited autocrine lif-mediated stat3 activation .
the level of socs3 , the endogenous stat3 inhibitory protein , was higher in gprc5a(+/+) than in gprc5a(-/-) cells , and expression of the tumor suppressor stabilized socs3 .
inhibition of stat3 signaling in gprc5a(-/-) normal and cancer cells by the janus-activated kinase 2 inhibitor ag490 or by a dominant negative stat3(y705f) increased starvation-induced apoptosis and inhibited colony formation .
these results show that persistent stat3 activation is important for the survival and transformation of gprc5a(-/-) lung cells and suggest that the tumor suppressive effects of gprc5a are mediated , at least in part , by inhibition of stat3 signaling through socs3 stabilization .
introduction during selective segregation of dna , a cell asymmetrically divides and retains its template dna .
asymmetric division yields daughter cells whose genome reflects that of the parents ' , simultaneously protecting the parental cell from genetic errors that may occur during dna replication .
we hypothesized that long-lived epithelial cells are present in immortal , premalignant cell populations , undergo asymmetric division , retain their template dna strands , and cycle both during allometric growth and during pregnancy .
methods the glands of 3-week old immune competent balb/c female mice were utilized intact or cleared of host epithelium and implanted with ductal-limited , lobule-limited , or alveolar-ductal progenitor cells derived from comma-d1 pre-malignant epithelial cells. 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine ( 5-brdu ) was administered to identify those cells which retain their template dna .
nulliparous mice were then either injected with [ (3)h]-thymidine ( (3)h-tdr ) to distinguish 5-brdu-label retaining cells that enter the cell cycle and euthanized , or mated , injected with ( 3)h-tdr , and euthanized at various days post-coitus .
sections were stained for estrogen receptor-(er-) or progesterone receptor ( pr ) via immunohistochemistry .
cells labelled with both 5-brdu and ( 3)h-tdr were indicative of label-retaining epithelial cells ( lrec ) .
results cells that retained a 5-brdu label and cells labelled with [ (3)h]-thymidine were found in all mice and were typically detected along the branching epithelium of mature mouse mammary glands .
cells containing double-labelled nuclei ( lrec ) were found in the intact mammary gland of both pregnant and nulliparous mice , and in mammary glands implanted with pre-malignant cells .
double-labelled cells ( (3)h-tdr/5-brdu ) represent a small portion of cells in the mammary gland that cycle and retain their template dna ( 5-brdu ) .
some label-retaining cells were also er- or pr positive .
lrecs distributed their second label ( (3)h-tdr ) to daughter cells ; and this effect persisted during pregnancy .
lrecs , and small focal hyperplasia , were found in all immortalized premalignant mammary implant groups .
conclusions the results indicate that a subpopulation of long-lived , label-retaining epithelial cells ( lrecs ) is present in immortal premalignant cell populations .
these lrecs persist during pregnancy , retain their original dna , and a small percentage express er- and pr .
we speculate that lrecs in premalignant hyperplasia represent the long-lived ( memory ) cells that maintain these populations indefinitely .
introduction the insulin-like growth factor i receptor ( igf-ir ) pathway plays a major role in cancer growth , tumor cell survival and resistance to therapy .
background preclinical evidence that targeting the igf-ir is effective in cancer treatment has been accumulating for almost 2 decades .
early clinical trials revealed an acceptable safety profile together with pharmacodynamic evidence that the receptor can be targeted successfully .
it is premature to draw conclusions regarding the therapeutic potential of this class of compounds but well-documented single-agent activity was noted during phase i evaluations , and recent evidence from a phase-ii study suggests that co-administration of an anti-igf-1r antibody with chemotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) improves objective response rate and progression-free survival .
viewpoints these early results are a strong indication for continued research on the targeting of igf-r , particularly in the treatment of nsclc .
conclusions today , igf-1r targeting appears a promising approach , more than two dozen compounds have been developed and clinical trials are underway .
background/aims we investigated whether the anticancer drug ukrain ( uk ) is able to modulate the expression of some of the key markers of tumor progression in pancreatic cell carcinoma , in order to assess its potential therapeutic effect .
methods three cell lines ( hpaf-ii , pl45 , hpac ) were treated with uk ( 5 , 10 and 20 m ) for 48 h , or left untreated .
secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine ( sparc ) mrna levels were assessed by real-time pcr .
matrix metalloproteinases ( mmp)-2 and -9 activity was analyzed by sds zymography ; sparc protein levels in cell lysates and supernatants were determined by western blot .
cell cycle was determined by flow cytometric analysis , and invasion by matrigel invasion assay .
results uk down-regulated mmp-2 and mmp-9 , suggesting that uk may decrease pancreatic cancer cell invasion , as confirmed by the matrigel invasion assay .
sparc protein down-regulation in supernatants points to an inhibition by uk of extracellular matrix remodeling in the tumor microenvironment .
at the same time , sparc mrna and cellular protein level up-regulation suggests that uk can affect cell proliferation by cell cycle inhibition , showing a cell cycle g2/m arrest in uk-treated cells .
conclusion our results suggest that uk modulates two major aspects involved in tumorigenesis of pancreatic cancer cells , such as extracellular matrix remodeling and cell proliferation .
pten , a phosphoinositide-3-phosphatase , serves dual roles as a tumor suppressor and regulator of cellular anabolic/catabolic metabolism .
adaptation of a redox-sensitive cysteinyl thiol in pten for signal transduction by hydrogen peroxide may have superimposed a vulnerability to other mediators of oxidative stress and inflammation , especially reactive carbonyl species , which are commonly occurring by-products of arachidonic acid peroxidation .
using mcf7 and hek-293 cells , we report that several reactive aldehydes and ketones , e.g. electrophilic ,-enals ( acrolein , 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal ) and ,-enones ( prostaglandin a(2) , 12-prostaglandin j(2) and 15-deoxy--12,14-prostaglandin j(2) ) covalently modify and inactivate cellular pten , with ensuing activation of pkb/akt kinase ; phosphorylation of akt substrates ; increased cell proliferation ; and increased nuclear -catenin signaling .
alkylation of pten by ,-enals/enones and interference with its restraint of cellular pkb/akt signaling may accentuate hyperplastic and neoplastic disorders associated with chronic inflammation , oxidative stress , or aging .
p38 kinases activated by growth factors , hormones , and environmental stresses exert diverse functions in regulating normal and malignant cell pathophysiology .
enhanced levels of activated p38 isoforms have been linked with poor prognosis in breast cancer , although the mechanistic basis for this association is poorly understood .
in this study , we report that p38 activation in cervical cancer cells is driven by osteopontin ( opn ) , an extracellular matrix-associated cytokine that drives invasive progression .
opn regulates cd44-mediated p38 phosphorylation that induces nf-b activation and nf-b-dependent expression of furin , an extracellular protease implicated in human papilloma virus ( hpv ) processing that enhances cervical cancer cell motility .
opn induces cd44-mediated mkk3/6 phosphorylation which in turn phosphorylates p38 in these cells .
opn-induced furin expression and cell motility was impeded by blockades to mkk3/6 , p38/ or nf-b signaling .
in a mouse xenograft model of human cervical cancer , tumor growth was enhanced by opn overexpression and blocked by short hairpin rna ( shrna)-mediated opn silencing .
furin overexpression similarly augmented tumor growth in the model , whereas blocking mkk3/6 , p38 , or furin reduced opn-induced cervical tumor growth .
analysis of clinical specimens revealed that enhanced expression of opn , phosphorylated nf-b , p65 , and furin correlated with cervical cancer progression , further strengthening the in vitro and in vivo results .
in summary , our findings offer a proof of concept for targeting opn and its downstream p38 signaling as a novel therapeutic strategy to manage cervical cancer .
background though an increased efficacy of carmustine and temozolomide ( tmz ) has been demonstrated by inactivation of o(6)-methylguanine-dna methyltransferase ( mgmt ) with o(6)-benzyl-guanine ( bg ) in human pancreatic tumors refractive to alkylating agents , the regulatory mechanisms have not been explored .
methods the effects of tmz and bg on apoptosis , cell growth , the mitotic index , cell cycle distribution , and protein expression were studied by tunel , cell counting , flow cytometry , and western blot analysis , respectively .
results the wt-p53 human pancreatic tumor cell line capan-2 and p53-efficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( mefs ) were more responsive to treatment with tmz + bg than mutant p53 capan-1 and p53-null mefs .
s phase delay with a subsequent g2/m arrest was observed in capans in response to bg + tmz .
the g1-to-s transition delay in capan-2 was associated with p53-dependent apoptosis and was distinctly different from the presumed mismatch repair ( mmr ) killing operative during the g2/m arrest .
the effect of p53 on bg + tmz toxicity was supported by a marked change in apoptosis when p53 function was restored/inactivated .
there was an early induction of mmr proteins in p53-efficient lines .
conclusion p53 provokes a classic proapoptotic response by delaying g1-to-s progression , but it may also facilitate cell killing by enhancing mmr-related cell cycle arrest and cell death .
objective chronic generation of inflammatory cytokines and reactive oxygen species are implicated in atherosclerosis , aging , cancers , and other chronic diseases .
we hypothesized that zinc induces a20 in premonocytic , endothelial , and cancer cells , and a20 binds to tumor necrosis factor ( tnf)-receptor associated factor , and inhibits i kinase- ( ikk-)/nuclear factor-b ( nf-b ) , resulting in downregulation of tnf- and interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) .
methods to test this hypothesis , we used hl-60 , human umbilical vein endothelial cells , and sw480 cell lines under zinc-deficient and zinc-sufficient conditions in this study .
we measured oxidative stress markers , inflammatory cytokines , a20 protein and mrna , a20-fraf-1 complex , and ikk-/nf-b signaling in stimulated zinc-deficient and zinc sufficient cells .
we also conducted antisense a20 and sirna studies to investigate the regulatory role of zinc in tnf- and il-1 via a20 .
results we found that zinc increased a20 and a20-tumor necrosis factor-receptor associated factor-1 complex , decreased the ikk-/nf-b signaling pathway , oxidative stress markers , and inflammatory cytokines in these cells compared with zinc-deficient cells .
we confirmed that zinc-induced a20 contributes to downregulation of tnf- and il-1 by antisense and short interfering rna a20 studies .
conclusion our studies suggest that zinc suppresses generation of nf-b-regulated inflammatory cytokines by induction of a20 .
several studies have indicated that the cell-surface expressed nucleolin is implicated in tumorigenesis and angiogenesis , and represents an important target for cancer therapy .
here we show that treatment of rhabdoid tumor derived g401 cells with a nucleolin antagonist , the hb-19 pseudopeptide , could restore contact inhibition , impair anchorage-independent growth , and suppress tumor development in nude mice .
g401 cells grow without contact inhibition , which is an in vitro characteristic property of malignant tumor cells .
at concentrations of hb-19 that does not affect cell viability and multiplication index , there is restoration of contact inhibition thus suggesting that hb-19 treatment causes reversion of the malignant phenotype .
accordingly , hb-19 pretreated g401 cells lose the capacity to form colonies in soft agar .
when assayed for tumorigenicity in nude mice , only 50% of mice injected with hb-19 pretreated g401 cells developed tumors with the mean tumor weight of 0.32 g , compared to 100% of mice injected with control g401 cells with the mean tumor weight of 2.36 g .
interestingly , the restoration of contact inhibition in hb-19 treated g401 cells is concomitant with marked reduction of transcripts coding the wilms ' tumor 1 gene , matrix metalloproteinase-2 , epithelial isoform of cd44 , and vascular endothelial growth factor , whereas no apparent modification is detected for transcripts coding the proto-oncogene c-myc , anti-apoptotic bcl-2 , pro-apoptotic bax , tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase timp-1 , angiogenesis inhibitor tsp-1 , and growth factor midkine .
these findings indicate that the molecular mechanism of action of hb-19 on such highly malignant rhabdoid tumor cells is associated with a selective inhibitory effect on the expression of genes implicated in tumorigenesis and angiogenesis .
sarcomatoid renal cell carcinomas of the kidney are rare neoplasms constituting about 1-5% of all renal malignant neoplasms .
these are aggressive tumors and are commonly associated with conventional ( clear cell ) renal cell carcinomas , but cases associated with chromophobe renal cell carcinomas are sparse .
cytological features of such lesions have rarely been reported .
here , we report a unique case of a 48-year-old male patient who presented with right flank lump and pain .
a fine needle aspiration was performed from the lesion under ultrasound guidance and a cytological diagnosis of pleomorphic sarcoma was made .
a right-sided radical nephrectomy was carried out and subsequent histopathology revealed a sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma with wide areas of necrosis coexisting with chromophobe renal cell carcinoma with calcification .
differentiation of pleomorphic sarcoma from a sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma is , thus , challenging from cytopathology smears and the differential diagnoses should always be borne in mind while giving a cytopathological opinion .
cancer development is associated with genetic instability .
identification of specific loci altered during carcinogenesis in a particular tissue gives scope for early detection and predicting the progressive nature of the tissue pathology .
instability at microsatellite loci is widely attributed to mismatch repair errors due to epigenetic alterations .
using three dinucleotide markers , d3s1313 , d9s171 , d17s250 and two mononucleotide markers bat25 , batrii , we evaluated msi in 97 cases enrolled for endoscopy of upper gi tract with symptoms of dyspepsia , reflux or dysphagia .
we aimed at evaluating markers that reflect instability in esophageal malignancies , examine the prevalence of msi in cancers and other pathologies of the esophagus , and determine the methylation status of hmlh1 gene in relation to msi. 42% ( 21/50 ) cancers and 15.4%(2/13) precancers exhibited msi where 85.7% cancers and 50% precancers with msi , showed a hypermethylated hmlh1 promoter .
increased number of cases with repair gene methylation were seen with increasing severity of the esophageal pathology suggesting epigenetic progression parallels histologic changes .
bat25 and d3s1313 markers exhibited instability frequently and cases with msi using these markers showed an abnormal hmlh1 promoter .
thus these markers were useful in identifying the mismatch repair phenotype .
these two markers may be useful to screen cases for early cancer related changes , after validation on a larger sample .
many cells in mammals exist in the state of quiescence , which is characterized by reversible exit from the cell cycle .
quiescent cells are widely reported to exhibit reduced size , nucleotide synthesis , and metabolic activity .
much lower glycolytic rates have been reported in quiescent compared with proliferating lymphocytes .
in contrast , we show here that primary human fibroblasts continue to exhibit high metabolic rates when induced into quiescence via contact inhibition .
by monitoring isotope labeling through metabolic pathways and quantitatively identifying fluxes from the data , we show that contact-inhibited fibroblasts utilize glucose in all branches of central carbon metabolism at rates similar to those of proliferating cells , with greater overflow flux from the pentose phosphate pathway back to glycolysis .
inhibition of the pentose phosphate pathway resulted in apoptosis preferentially in quiescent fibroblasts .
by feeding the cells labeled glutamine , we also detected a " backwards " flux in the tricarboxylic acid cycle from -ketoglutarate to citrate that was enhanced in contact-inhibited fibroblasts ; this flux likely contributes to shuttling of nadph from the mitochondrion to cytosol for redox defense or fatty acid synthesis .
the high metabolic activity of the fibroblasts was directed in part toward breakdown and resynthesis of protein and lipid , and in part toward excretion of extracellular matrix proteins .
thus , reduced metabolic activity is not a hallmark of the quiescent state .
quiescent fibroblasts , relieved of the biosynthetic requirements associated with generating progeny , direct their metabolic activity to preservation of self integrity and alternative functions beneficial to the organism as a whole .
the vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor sunitinib has been approved for first-line treatment of patients with metastatic renal cancer and is currently being trialled in other cancers .
however , the effectiveness of this anti-angiogenic agent is limited by the presence of innate and acquired drug resistance .
by screening a panel of candidate growth factors we identified fibroblast growth factor 2 ( fgf2 ) as a potent regulator of endothelial cell sensitivity to sunitinib .
we show that fgf2 supports endothelial proliferation and de novo tubule formation in the presence of sunitinib and that fgf2 can suppress sunitinib-induced retraction of tubules .
importantly , these effects of fgf2 were ablated by pd173074 , a small molecule inhibitor of fgf receptor signalling .
we also show that fgf2 can stimulate pro-angiogenic signalling pathways in endothelial cells despite the presence of sunitinib .
finally , analysis of clinical renal-cancer samples demonstrates that a large proportion of renal cancers strongly express fgf2 .
we suggest that therapeutic strategies designed to simultaneously target both vegf and fgf2 signalling may prove more efficacious than sunitinib in renal cancer patients whose tumours express fgf2 .
numerous scientific studies have examined the relationship between coffee consumption and an array of medical conditions , including cancer , and yet the direct effect of commercially brewed coffee on cancer cells has not been evaluated .
the purpose of this study was to evaluate the antiproliferation effect of 4 different regular and decaffeinated coffee brews and 3 of coffee's bioactive ingredients-caffeine , chlorogenic acids , and caffeic acid-on 2 human ovarian cancer cell lines alone and in combination with cisplatin ( cddp ) .
antiproliferation ic(50) for brand a regular and decaffeinated coffee on a2780 cells was 1:70.79  5.66 and 1:55.68  2.00 dilution ( vol/vol ) in tissue culture medium ( mean  standard error of the mean ; n = 12 ) , respectively , and slightly lower on a2780cp70 cells .
three other brands showed lower antiproliferation activity .
antiproliferation ic(50) concentrations of chlorogenic acids and caffeic acid are many folds lower than caffeine .
in combination with cddp , both brand a coffee brews , and the 3 bioactive compounds , showed additive antiproliferation effect on both cancer cell lines .
flow cytometry analysis showed that coffee treatment induced apoptosis of a2780 and a2780cp70 cells .
to our knowledge , this is the first report showing the antiproliferation activity and the additive effect with cddp of commercially prepared coffee brews on human cancer cell lines .
cell division and apoptosis are two crucial components of tumor biology and the importance of increased cell proliferation and reduced cell death have made them valid therapeutic targets .
the plant kingdom is a relatively underexploited cache of novel drugs , and crude extracts of plants are known for their synergistic activity .
the present study assessed the anti-proliferative activity of the medicinal plant centrosema pubescens benth .
centrosema pubescens dichloromethane extract ( cpde ) inhibited the proliferation of hl-60 ( promyelocytic acute leukaemia ) cells with an ic value of 5 g/ml .
further studies also showed that cpde induces growth arrest at the g1 phase and specifically down-regulates the expressions of cyclin e and cdk2 and up-regulates p27(cki) levels .
these events apparently lead to the induction of apoptosis , which was demonstrated qualitatively by a dna fragmentation assay and propidium iodide staining .
quantitative assessment of the effective arrest of the cell cycle and of apoptosis was confirmed by flow cytometry .
cpde exhibited negligible cytotoxicity even at the highest dose tested ( 100 g/ml ) in both normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells and in an in vitro model ( hl-60 ) .
our results strongly suggest that cpde arrests the cell cycle at the g1 phase and triggers apoptosis by caspase activation .
purpose steroid hormones and growth factors affect lung cancer , and it is possible they act in concert to influence patient outcome .
experimental design primary lung tumors and normal lung tissue were analyzed for expression and localization of estrogen receptor  and -1 ( er and er ) , aromatase , progesterone receptor ( pr ) , and epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) .
results tumors expressed higher levels of er compared to matched normal lung , whereas the reverse was true of pr .
high cytoplasmic er expression was identified as an independent negative prognostic predictor of overall survival ( os ; hr = 1.67 ) , and low total pr was identified as an independent negative predictor of time to progression ( ttp ; hr = 1.59 ) .
after adjusting for stage , age , sex , and smoking , combined high cytoplasmic er and low total pr showed enhanced effects on os ( hr = 2.64 ) and on ttp ( hr = 6.02 ) .
further effects on os were observed when egfr expression was included ( hr = 5.32 ) .
patients with low cytoplasmic er , low aromatase , low egfr , and high total pr had shorter os than patients with the opposite pattern ( hr = 6.60 ) .
contribution of these markers to survival showed no significant sex differences in a multivariable model .
er was elevated in tumors but was not predictive of survival , and appears to represent a variant er protein that is only recognized by a c-terminal antibody .
conclusions hormonal and egfr pathways together may contribute to lung cancer prognosis .
lung tumors with high er-1/low pr may define patients with aggressive biology .
a validation study is necessary to fully assess the predictive value of these markers .
although the p16(ink4a) and p21waf1/cip1 cyclin-dependent kinase ( cdk ) inhibitors are known to play key roles in cellular senescence in vitro , their roles in senescence remain rather poorly understood in vivo .
this situation is partly due to the possibility of compensatory effect(s) between p16ink4a and p21waf1/cip1 or to the upregulation of functionally related cdk inhibitors .
to directly address the cooperative roles of p16ink4a and p21waf1/cip1 in senescence in vivo , we generated a mouse line simply lacking both p16ink4a and p21waf1/cip1 genes [ double-knockout ( dko) ] .
mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( mef ) derived from dko mice displayed no evidence of cellular senescence when cultured serially in vitro .
moreover , dko mefs readily escaped ras-induced senescence and overrode contact inhibition in culture .
this was not the case in mefs lacking either p16ink4a or p21waf1/cip1 , indicating that p16(ink4a) and p21waf1/cip1 play cooperative roles in cellular senescence and contact inhibition in vitro .
notably , we found the dko mice to be extremely susceptible to 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene/12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-induced skin carcinogenesis that involves oncogenic mutation of the h-ras gene .
mechanistic investigations suggested that the high incidence of cancer in dko mice likely reflected a cooperative effect of increased benign skin tumor formation caused by p21waf1/cip1 loss , with increased malignant conversion of benign skin tumors caused by p16(ink4a) loss .
our findings establish an intrinsic cooperation between p16ink4a and p21waf1/cip1 in the onset of cellular senescence and tumor suppression in vivo .
genotoxic stress induces cell cycle arrest and dna repair which may enable tumor cells to survive radiation therapy .
here , we defined the role of ca(2+) signaling in the cell cycle control and survival of chronic myeloid leukemia ( cml ) cells subjected to ionizing radiation ( ir ) .
to this end , k562 erythroid leukemia cells were irradiated ( 0-10 gy ) .
tumor survival was analyzed by clonogenic survival assay and cell cycle progression via flow cytometry .
plasma membrane cation conductance was assessed by patch-clamp whole-cell recording and the cytosolic free ca(2+) concentration ( [ ca(2+)](i) ) was measured by fura-2 ca(2+) imaging .
nuclear activity of ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase ii ( camkii ) was defined by western blotting .
in addition , the effect of ir ( 5 gy ) on the cation conductance of primary cml cells was determined .
the results indicated that ir ( 10 gy ) induced a g(2)/m cell cycle arrest of k562 cells within 24 h post-irradiation ( p.i. ) and decreased the clonogenic survival to 0.5 % of that of the control cells .
in k562 cells , g(2)/m cell cycle arrest was preceded by activation of trpv5/6-like nonselective cation channels in the plasma membrane 1-5 h p.i. , resulting in an elevated ca(2+) entry as evident from fura-2 ca(2+) imaging .
similarly , ir stimulated a ca(2+)-permeable nonselective cation conductance in primary cml cells within 2-4 h p.i. .
ca(2+) entry , into k562 cells was paralleled by an ir-induced activation of nuclear camkii .
the ir-stimulated accumulation in g(2) phase was delayed upon buffering [ ca(2+)](i) with the ca(2+) chelator bapta-am or inhibiting camkii with kn93 ( 1 nm ) .
in addition , kn93 decreased the clonogenic survival of irradiated cells but not of control cells .
in conclusion , the data suggest that ir-stimulated cation channel activation , ca(2+) entry and camkii activity participate in control of cell cycle progression and survival of irradiated cml cells .
periplocin is one of cardenolides isolated from cortex periplocae which is used for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and reinforcement of bones and tendons in traditional medicine .
here , we investigated the anti-tumor activity of periplocin against lung cancer cells bothin vitro and in vivo , and explored its anti-cancer mechanism .
periplocin inhibited the growth of lung cancer cells and induced their apoptosis in time- and dose-dependent manners by cell cycle arrest in g0/g1 phase .
periplocin exhibited anti-tumor activity both in human ( a549 ) and mouse ( ll/2 ) lung cancer xenograft models .
immunohistochemical analysis revealed that intratumoral angiogenesis was significantly suppressed .
furthermore , anti-cancer activity mediated by periplocin was associated with decreased level of phosphorylated akt and erk both in vitro and in vivo , which were important for cell growth and survival .
moreover , periplocin induced apoptosis by downregulating bcl-2 and upregulating bax , leading to activation of caspase-3 and caspase-9 .
these findings suggested that periplocin could inhibit the growth of lung cancer both in vitro and in vivo , which could be attributed to the inhibition of proliferation and the induction of apoptosis signaling pathway , such as akt and erk .
these observations provide further evidence on the anti-tumor effect of periplocin , and it may be of importance to further explore its potential role as a therapeutic agent for cancer .
landmark studies of the status of dna damage checkpoints and associated repair functions in preneoplastic and neoplastic cells has focused attention on importance of these pathways in cancer development , and inhibitors of repair pathways are in clinical trials for treatment of triple negative breast cancer .
cancer heterogeneity suggests that specific cancer subtypes will have distinct mechanisms of dna damage survival , dependent on biological context .
in this study , status of dna damage response ( ddr)-associated proteins was examined in breast cancer subtypes in association with clinical features ; 479 breast cancers were examined for expression of ddr proteins h2ax , brca1 , pchk2 , and p53 , dna damage-sensitive tumor suppressors fhit and wwox , and wwox-interacting proteins ap2 , ap2 , erbb4 , and correlations among proteins , tumor subtypes , and clinical features were assessed .
in a multivariable model , triple negative cancers showed significantly reduced fhit and wwox , increased p53 and ap2 protein expression , and were significantly more likely than other subtype tumors to exhibit aberrant expression of two or more ddr-associated proteins .
disease-free survival was associated with subtype , fhit and membrane erbb4 expression level and aberrant expression of multiple ddr-associated proteins .
these results suggest that definition of specific dna repair and checkpoint defects in subgroups of triple negative cancer might identify new treatment targets .
expression of wwox and its interactor , erbb4 , was highly significantly reduced in metastatic tissues vs. matched primary tissues , suggesting that wwox signal pathway loss contributes to lymph node metastasis , perhaps by allowing survival of tumor cells that have detached from basement membranes , as proposed for the role of wwox in ovarian cancer spread .
rhabdoid tumors have been reported in many different anatomic sites as an aggressive tumor and usually present with a rhabdoid tumor component ( a composite tumor ) rather than a pure rhabdoid tumor .
rhabdoid tumor in the prostate has been described only once in the prostatic region as a possible epithelial origin .
rhabdoid features in prostatic stromal sarcomas ( psss ) have never been described in the literature .
here , we report a case of a pss with rhabdoid features .
a 31-year-old man presented with a 4-month history of voiding difficulty and anal pain .
computed tomography of the abdomen revealed an ovoid mass in the prostate invading rectum and urinary bladder .
a needle biopsy was diagnosed as an unclassified spindle cell sarcoma , and 2 cycles of adriamycin-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy were given , followed by radical prostatectomy .
the prostatectomy specimen revealed a high-grade sarcoma with fascicles of highly cellular spindle cells and numerous mitoses with hemorrhage and necrosis .
in areas , the tumor also contained sheets of loosely cohesive epithelioid cells with rhabdoid tumor component .
both spindle and rhabdoid tumor cells were positive for vimentin , cd34 , and progesterone receptor and negative for desmin and cytokeratin immunostainings .
the rhabdoid tumor cells retained ini1 expression .
the tumor recurred in the bladder , and the patient died of sepsis .
to the best of our knowledge , this is the first case of pss with rhabdoid features .
the tumor showed an aggressive clinical behavior with a short-term survival ( 7 months after diagnosis ) .
hgf signaling induces epithelial cells to disassemble cadherin-based adhesion and increase cell motility and invasion , a process termed epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) .
emt plays a major role in cancer metastasis , allowing individual cells to detach from the primary tumor , invade local tissue , and colonize distant tissues with new tumors .
while invasion of vascular and lymphatic networks is the predominant route of metastasis , nerves also can act as networks for dissemination of cancer cell to distant sites in a process termed perineual invasion ( pni ) .
signaling between nerves and invasive cancer cells remains poorly understood , as does cellular decision making that selects the specific route of invasion .
here we examine how hgf signaling contributes to pni using reductionist culture model systems .
we find that tgf , produced by pc12 cells , enhances scattering in response to hgf stimulation , increasing both cell-cell junction disassembly and cell migration .
further , gradients of tgf induce migratory mesenchymal cells to undergo chemotaxis towards the source of tgf .
interestingly , vegf suppresses tgf-induced enhancement of scattering .
these results have broad implications for how combinatorial growth factor signaling contributes to cancer metastasis , suggesting that vegf and tgf might modulate hgf signaling to influence route selection during cancer progression .
metastatic cancer cells typically fail to halt migration on contact with non-cancer cells .
this invasiveness is in contrast to normal mesenchymal cells that retract on contact with another cell .
why cancer cells are defective in contact inhibition of locomotion is not understood .
here , we analyse the dynamics of prostate cancer cell lines co-cultured with fibroblasts , and demonstrate that a combinatorial code of eph receptor activation dictates whether cell migration will be contact inhibited .
the unimpeded migration of metastatic pc-3 cells towards fibroblasts is dependent on activation of ephb3 and ephb4 by ephrin-b2 , which we show activates cdc42 and cell migration .
knockdown of ephb3 and ephb4 restores contact inhibition of locomotion to pc-3 cells .
conversely , homotypic collisions between two cancer cells results in contact inhibition of locomotion , mediated by epha-rho-rho kinase ( rock ) signalling .
thus , the migration of cancer cells can switch from restrained to invasive , depending on the eph-receptor profile of the cancer cell and the reciprocal ephrin ligands expressed by neighbouring cells .
an epithelial cell line , referred to as a163 , was established from breast carcinoma derived from a patient with a strong family history of breast cancer but no known breast cancer susceptibility mutation .
a163 was propagated in a serum-free culture medium including the epidermal growth factor .
immunophenotypic characterization demonstrated a mixed luminal and basal-like phenotype .
when epidermal growth factor was excluded from the culture medium , a163 entered a quiescent period followed by a period of increased cell proliferation in a subpopulation of the cells .
the epidermal growth factor-independent subpopulation retained the basal-like phenotype of the parental cell line .
karyotype and fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis showed an amplification of epidermal growth factor receptor on 7q in a163-s1 only , resulting in high expression of total and phosphorylated epidermal growth factor receptor .
the a163-s1 sub-line piles up in culture , indicating a loss of contact inhibition .
when grown on transwell filters , a163 shows basal expression of p63 and cytokeratin 14 , whereas a163-s1 expresses p63 ubiquitously , and has lost the basal specific expression of cytokeratin 14 , indicating a loss of polarity .
furthermore , when cultured in reconstituted basement membrane matrix , a163 form polarized normal like acini .
in contrast , a163-s1 form large disorganized structures with lack of polarity .
these cell lines may prove useful to understand molecular changes in breast cancer progression , in particular basal-like breast cancer subtype with bad prognosis and no current treatment options .
background adult human mesenchymal stem cells ( hmsc ) have been shown to home to sites of carcinoma and affect biological processes , including tumour growth and metastasis .
previous findings have been conflicting and a clear understanding of the effects of hmscs on cancer remains to be established .
therefore , we set out to investigate the impact of hmscs on the oestrogen receptor positive , hormone-dependent breast carcinoma cell line mcf-7 .
results in this study , we show the effects of hmscs on cancer cells are mediated through a secreted factor(s) which are enhanced by cancer cell-hmsc contact/communication .
in addition to enhanced proliferation when in co-culture with hmscs , mcf-7 cells were found to have increased migration potential in vitro .
inhibition of er signalling by the pure anti-oestrogen ici 182,780 decreased the effect of hmscs on mcf-7 cell proliferation and migration supporting a role for er signalling in the hmsc/mcf-7 cell interaction .
additionally , hmscs have been shown to secrete a wide variety of growth factors and chemokines including stromal cell-derived factor-1 ( sdf-1 ) .
this coupled with the knowledge that sdf-1 is an er-mediated gene linked with hormone-independence and metastasis led to the investigation of the sdf-1/cxcr4 signalling axis in hmsc-mcf-7 cell interaction .
experiments revealed an increase in sdf-1 gene expression both in vivo and in vitro when mcf-7 cells were cultured with hmscs .
sdf-1 treatment of mcf-7 cells alone increased proliferation to just below that seen with hmsc co-culture .
additionally , blocking sdf-1 signalling using a cxcr4-specific inhibitor decreased hmsc induced proliferation and migration of mcf-7 .
however , the combined treatment of ici and amd3100 reduced mcf-7 cell proliferation and migration below control levels , indicating targeting both the er and cxcr4 pathways is effective in decreasing the hmscs induction of mcf-7 cell proliferation and migration .
conclusions the sum of these data reveals the relationship between tumour microenvironment and tumour growth and progression .
better understanding of the mechanisms involved in this tumour stroma cell interaction may provide novel targets for the development of treatment strategies for oestrogen receptor positive , hormone-independent , and endocrine-resistant breast carcinoma .
multiple myeloma is characterized by the clonal expansion of malignant plasma cells ( multiple myeloma cells [ mmcs] ) , in the bone marrow .
osteolytic bone lesions are detected in 80% of patients because of increased osteoclastic bone resorption and reduced osteoblastic bone formation .
mmcs are found closely associated with sites of increased bone resorption .
osteoclasts strongly support mmc survival in vitro .
to further elucidate the mechanisms involved in osteoclast/mmc interaction , we have identified 552 genes overexpressed in osteoclasts compared with other bone marrow cell subpopulations .
osteoclasts express specifically genes coding for 4 ccr2-targeting chemokines and genes coding for mmc growth factors .
an anti-ccr2 monoclonal antibody blocked osteoclast chemoattractant activity for mmc , and ccr2 chemokines are also mmc growth factors , promoting mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in mmc .
an anti-insulin growth factor-1 receptor monoclonal antibody completely blocked the osteoclast-induced survival of mmc suppressing both osteoclast and mmc survival .
specific a proliferation-inducing ligand or il-6 inhibitors partially blocked osteoclast-induced mmc survival .
these data may explain why newly diagnosed patients whose mmc express high levels of ccr2 present numerous bone lesions .
this study displays additional mechanisms involved in osteoclast/mmc interaction and suggests using ccr2 and/or insulin growth factor-1 targeting strategies to block this interaction and prevent drug resistance .
many tumors contain heterogeneous populations of cells , only some of which exhibit increased tumorigenicity and resistance to anticancer therapies .
evidence suggests that these aggressive cancer cells , often termed " cancer stem cells " or " cancer stem-like cells " ( cscs ) , rely upon developmental signaling pathways that are important for survival and expansion of normal stem cells .
here we report that , in analogy to embryonic mammary epithelial biology , estrogen signaling expands the pool of functional breast cscs through a paracrine fgf/fgfr/tbx3 signaling pathway .
estrogen or fgf9 pretreatment induced csc properties of breast cancer cell lines and freshly isolated breast cancer cells , whereas cotreatment of cells with tamoxifen or a small molecule inhibitor of fgfr signaling was sufficient to prevent the estrogen-induced expansion of cscs .
furthermore , reduction of fgfr or tbx3 gene expression was able to abrogate tumorsphere formation , whereas ectopic tbx3 expression increased tumor seeding potential by 100-fold .
these findings demonstrate that breast cscs are stimulated by estrogen through a signaling pathway that similarly controls normal mammary epithelial stem cell biology .
osteoblastic bone metastases are the most common metastases produced by human prostate cancers ( pca ) .
deregulated activity of wnt growth factors resulting from overexpression of the wnt inhibitor dickkopf-1 ( dkk-1 ) is known to contribute to formation of the osteoblastic component of pca skeletal bone metastases .
in this study , we report that dkk-1 knockdown in osteolytic human pca cells unexpectedly delays the development of both soft tissue and osseous lesions .
pca cells deficient in dkk-1 expression did not increase canonical wnt signaling in target osteoblast cell lines ; however , dkk-1 knockdown pca cells exhibited increased expression of the cdk inhibitor p21(cip1/waf1) and a 32% increase in g(1) arrest compared with control cells .
ablating p21(cip1/waf1) in pca cells deficient in dkk-1 was sufficient to rescue tumor growth .
collectively , our findings demonstrate that dkk-1 overexpression supports tumor growth in part by restricting expression of p21(cip1/waf1) through a mechanism independent of canonical wnt signaling .
it has been demonstrated that growth factors produced by breast cancer cells stimulate aromatase expression in both breast cancer and adjacent adipose fibroblasts and stromal cells .
however , whether these growth factors affect aromatase activity by other mechanisms still remain unclear .
in the current study , mcf-7aro and t47daro aromatase transfected breast carcinoma cells were used to explore the mechanisms of post-transcriptional regulation of aromatase activity by growth factor pathways .
our study reveals that pi3k/akt and mapk inhibitors suppressed aromatase activity in mcf-7aro cells .
however , pi3k/akt pathway inhibitors stimulated aromatase activity in t47daro cells .
this is due to enhanced mapk phosphorylation as compensation after the pi3k/akt pathway has been blocked .
igf-1 treatment increased aromatase activity in both breast cancer cell lines .
in addition , ltedaro cells ( long-term estrogen deprived mcf-7aro cells ) which have enhanced mapk activity , show higher aromatase activity compared to parental mcf-7aro cells , but the aromatase protein level remains the same .
these results suggest that aromatase activity could be enhanced by growth factor signaling pathways via post-transcriptional mechanisms .
hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) remains a common malignant cancer worldwide .
there is an urgent need to identify new molecular targets for the development of novel therapeutic approaches .
herein , we review the structure , function and biology of glypican-3 ( gpc3 ) and its role in human cancer with a focus on its potential as a therapeutic target for immunotherapy .
gpc3 is a cell-surface protein that is over-expressed in hcc .
loss-of-function mutations of gpc3 cause simpson-golabi-behmel syndrome ( sgbs ) , a rare x-linked overgrowth condition .
gpc3 binds wnt and hedgehog ( hh ) signalling proteins .
gpc3 is also able to bind basic growth factors such as fibroblast growth factor 2 through its heparan sulphate glycan chains .
gpc3 is a promising candidate for liver cancer therapy given that it shows high expression in hcc .
an anti-gpc3 monoclonal antibody has shown anti-cancer activity in mice and its humanised igg molecule is currently undergoing clinical evaluation in patients with hcc .
there is also evidence that soluble gpc3 may be a useful serum biomarker for hcc .
a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms of dna repair after exposure to ionizing radiation represents a research priority aimed at improving the outcome of clinical radiotherapy .
because of the close association with dna double strand break ( dsb ) repair , phosphorylation of the histone h2ax protein ( h2ax ) , quantified by immunodetection , has recently been used as a method to study dsb induction and repair at low and clinically relevant radiation doses .
however , the lack of consistency in literature points to the need to further validate the role of h2ax phosphorylation in dsb repair and the use of this technique to determine intrinsic radiosensitivity .
in the present study we used human mammary epithelial mcf10a cells , characterized by a radiosensitive phenotype due to reduced levels of the ku70 and ku80 repair proteins , and investigated whether this repair-deficient cell line displays differences in the phosphorylation pattern of h2ax protein compared to repair-proficient mcf10a cells .
this was established by measuring formation and disappearance of h2ax foci after irradiating synchronized cell populations with ( 60)co -rays .
our results show statistically significant differences in the number of h2ax foci between the repair-deficient and -proficient cell line , with a higher amount of h2ax foci present at early times post-irradiation in the ku-deficient cell line .
however , the disappearance of those differences at later post-irradiation times questions the use of this assay to determine intrinsic radiosensitivity , especially in a clinical setting .
the aim of this study was to determine whether caffeine enhanced radiosensitivity of normal liver tissue in a rat radiation-induced liver disease model .
buffalo rat mca-rh7777 hepatocellular cancer cells and brl3a normal liver cells were irradiated , and cell cycle distribution and apoptosis rates were analyzed .
a rat model of radiation-induced liver disease was established , rats were randomized into four groups : control ; caffeine alone ; irradiation ( ir ) alone ; and caffeine plus ir ( caff + ir ) group .
apoptosis rates in normal rat liver tissue after ir were evaluated by tunel staining and caspase-3 western blot .
transaminase activity was measured and histopathological examination was done after ir .
caffeine abrogated ir-induced g2 phase arrest ( caff + ir vs. ir : 40.9  4.0 vs. 60.7  5.5% , at 12 h after ir ) and increased apoptosis rates ( caff + ir vs. ir : 56.1  6.8 vs. 35.5  4.0% , at 72 h after ir ) in mca-rh7777 cells , but did not affect ir-induced g2 phase arrest and apoptosis rates at any time point after ir in brl3a cells .
caffeine did not enhance apoptosis , transaminase activity , or histopathological injury of normal rat liver tissue at any time points after ir .
this study suggests that caffeine might not enhance radiosensitivity of normal liver tissue in vivo .
in an earlier study , we reported that caffeine enhanced radiosensitivity of human hepatocellular cancer in a nude mice model .
together , these results offer feasibility of clinical application .
the role of estrogen receptor beta ( er ) in breast cancer is unclear .
er is considered to have a protective role in breast cancer development based on findings demonstrating that er expression inhibits er-mediated proliferation of breast cancer cells .
we previously demonstrated that er causes a ligand independent g2 cell cycle arrest in mcf-7 cells .
to study the mechanisms of the er-mediated g2 cell cycle arrest , we investigated its effects on the regulatory pathways responsible for the g2/m phase transition .
we found that er inhibits cdk1 activity , which is the critical determinant of the g2/m progression .
cdk1 activity is modulated by both stimulatory and inhibitory factors .
cyclin b1 is the major activator of cdk1 .
er inhibited the cell cycle-dependent stimulation of cyclin b1 mrna and protein .
gadd45a and btg2 are two major inhibitors of cdk1 , which have been implicated in breast tumor formation .
based on these findings , we explored if the expression pattern of gadd45a and btg2 is affected by er .
we found that er stimulates gadd45a and btg2 mrna levels .
the induction of these two genes is caused by er binding directly to these genes and recruiting c-jun and ncoa2 .
our findings demonstrated that unliganded er causes a g2 cell cycle arrest by inactivating cdk1 through the repression of cyclin b1 and stimulation of gadd45a and btg2 expression .
these results provide evidence that drugs that stimulate the production of unliganded er may be effective new therapies to prevent breast cancer .
we investigated the priming effect and mechanism of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) in chemotherapy with low-dose ara-c and vp-16 for acute myeloid leukemia .
we analyzed cell proliferation , apoptosis , and cell cycle in vitro using leukemia cell lines 32dcl3 , u937 , hl-60 , and ba/f3 .
cell proliferation assays were performed using the trypan blue dye exclusion method .
for detection of apoptosis , the annexin v-binding capacity of treated cells was examined by flow cytometry .
to evaluate the cell cycle , we used an fitc brdu flow kit and conducted analysis by flow cytometry .
the combination of ara-c and vp-16 significantly enhanced the observed effects compared with those of ara-c or vp-16 alone .
concurrent administration of g-csf further reduced the cell number and viability of 32dcl3 and u937 cells , but not of hl-60 and ba/f3 cells .
apoptotic cells were significantly increased in number by the addition of g-csf to 32dcl3 and u937 cells , while g-csf had no significant effect on hl-60 and ba/f3 cell lines .
the addition of g-csf significantly decreased the percentage of g0/g1-phase cells and significantly increased that of s-phase cells among 32dcl3 and u937 cells .
no significant effect was observed for hl-60 and ba/f3 cells .
an enhancement was confirmed for the combination of ara-c , vp-16 , and g-csf for 32dcl3 and u937 cells but not for hl-60 and ba/f3 cells .
it was thought that this difference was a result of different responses to g-csf .
g-csf potentiates ara-c- and vp-16-induced cytotoxicities through apoptosis induction by mobilizing resting g0-g1-phase cells into s phase .
tobacco-induced oxidative stress leads to chronic inflammation and is implicated in the development of many human epithelial cancers , including head and neck cancer .
cigarette smoke exposure was shown to induce the expression of the np63 and nitric oxide synthase ( nos)-2 in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cells and immortalized oral keratinocytes .
the nos2 promoter was found to contain various cognate sequences for several transcription factors including interferon regulatory factor ( irf)-6 and p63 , which were shown in vivo binding to the nos2 promoter in response to smoke exposure .
small interfering ( si)-rnas against both np63 and irf6 decreased the induction of nos2 promoter-driven reporter luciferase activity and were shown to inhibit nos2 activity .
furthermore , both mainstream ( mse ) and sidestream ( sse ) smoking extracts induced changes in expression of autophagic marker , lc3b , while sirna against np63 , irf6 and nos2 modulated these autophagic changes .
overall , these data support the notion that np63/irf6 interplay regulates nos2 transcription , thereby underlying the autophagic-related cancer cell response to tobacco exposure .
monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) to her2 are currently used to treat breast cancer , but low clinical efficacy , along with primary and acquired resistance to therapy , commonly limit clinical applications .
we previously reported that combinations of antibodies directed at non-overlapping epitopes of her2 are endowed with enhanced antitumor effects , probably due to accelerated receptor degradation .
here , we extend these observations to three-dimensional mammary cell models , and compare the effects of single mabs with the effects of antibody combinations .
collectively , our in vitro assays and computational image analyses indicate that combining mabs against different epitopes of her2 better inhibits invasive growth .
importantly , while growth factors are able to reduce intraluminal apoptosis and induce an invasive phenotype , combinations of mabs better than single mabs can reverse the growth factor-induced phenotypes of her2-overexpressing spheroids .
in conclusion , our studies propose that mab combinations negate the biological effects of growth factors on invasive growth of her2-overexpressing cells .
hence , combining mabs offers a therapeutic strategy , potentially able to enhance clinical efficacy of existing antireceptor immunotherapeutics .
construction industry workers are exposed to many known carcinogens in their complex occupational environment .
since there are no past studies on genotoxicity among this group in the indian subcontinent , workers engaged in different construction sites at coimbatore , tamil nadu , india , were assessed here .
we enrolled 96 workers and 68 control subjects with similar mean age , smoking , tobacco chewing prevalence and alcohol consumption , for analysis of dna damage in blood leucocytes by micronucleus ( mn ) and comet assays .
dna repair inhibition was also analyzed by assessing the xpd gene .
construction workers showed a significant increase in mn and comet tail length compared to controls with adjustment for smoking habits , tobacco chewing , alcohol consumption and years of exposure ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
the results indicated that chronic occupational exposure to cement during construction work could lead to increased levels of dna damage and repair inhibition .
purpose bmp-6 , which belongs to the tgf- superfamily , is a multifunctional molecule with distinct abilities in embryogenesis and organogenesis .
our recent research has implied that bmp-6 may suppress breast cancer metastasis .
in the present study , we extended to elucidate the molecular mechanism by which bmp-6 exerts its anti-tumorigenic effect .
methods the boyden chamber assay was used to examine the ability of bmp-6 and ho-1 in mcf-7 malignant progress .
rt-pcr , western blot , luciferase assay , and quantitative chip were used to determine the potential mechanism and signaling pathways by which bmp-6 and ho-1 function as anti-metastatic factors in mcf-7 cells .
results the boyden chamber assay showed that bmp-6 inhibited the migration and invasion of mcf-7 cells , which effect was significantly deprived by knockdown of ho-1 .
we further demonstrated that bmp-6 treatment resulted in an activation of ho-1 transcription through the recruitment of smad1/5 to the smad-responsive element on its promoter .
in addition , bmp-6-induced up-regulation of ho-1 exhibited an inhibitory effect on mmp-9 secretion in a paracrine action in mcf-7 cells .
overexpression of bmp-6 and ho-1 synergistically suppressed mmp-9 transcription , which effect was specifically mediated via the mapk/p38/ap-1 signaling .
however , blockade of ho-1 using znppix totally abolished bmp-6-regulated mmp-9 activation in mcf-7 cells .
conclusions these observations suggest a novel role of bmp-6/ho-1 cascade to relieve breast cancer metastasis by regulating the secretion of growth factors in tumor microenvironment .
purpose germline mutations in brca1 result in a strong predisposition to breast cancer , with frequent loss of heterozygosity of the remaining wild-type allele .
the development of brca1 tumors is likely to depend on additional genetic alterations and gene expression changes which follow growth and dna repair defects associated with brca1 deficiency .
the identification of these modifications offers an opportunity to find surrogate markers of brca1 tumors .
here , we sought to identify differentially expressed proteins related to brca1 depletion .
experimental design we used isogenic hela cells either stably knocked-down or not for brca1 ( brca1(kd) ) and compared protein profiles of these cells by dige .
results we detected increased levels of replication protein a2 ( rpa2 ) in brca1(kd) cells as compared to control cells .
rpa2 is an essential protein required for dna replication and repair .
we further demonstrated that depletion of rpa2 subunit delays growth of brca1(kd) respect to isogenic control cells .
strikingly , elevated levels of rpa2 were more frequently observed in brca1 tumors when triple-negative tumors from brca1 mutation carriers ( n=13 ) and non-carriers ( n=36 ) were stained in situ for rpa2 .
conclusions and clinical relevance rpa2 up-regulation may thus be involved in the growth and/or survival of brca1 tumor cells and useful in immunohistochemical discrimination of triple-negative brca1 tumors .
background epidemiologic data have shown that obesity independently increases colorectal cancer ( crc ) risk , but the mechanisms are poorly understood .
obesity is an inflammatory state , and chronic colonic inflammation induces crc .
objective we conducted this proof-of-principle study to seek evidence of obesity-associated colorectal inflammation and to evaluate effects of diet-induced weight loss .
design we measured inflammatory cytokines , gene arrays , and macrophage infiltration in rectosigmoid mucosal biopsies of 10 obese premenopausal women [ mean  sd body mass index ( in kg/m(2) ) : 35  3.5 ] before and after weight loss induced by a very-low-calorie diet .
results subjects lost a mean ( sd ) of 10.1  1% of their initial weight .
weight loss significantly reduced fasting blood glucose , total cholesterol , triglycerides , ldl , tumor necrosis factor- ( tnf- ) , and interleukin ( il)-8 concentrations ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
after weight loss , rectosigmoid biopsies showed a 25-57% reduction in tnf- , il-1 , il-8 , and monocyte chemotactic protein 1 concentrations ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
t cell and macrophage counts decreased by 28% and 42% , respectively ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
gene arrays showed dramatic down-regulation of proinflammatory cytokine and chemokine pathways , prostaglandin metabolism , and the transcription factors stat3 ( signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ) and nuclear transcription factor b .
weight loss reduced expression of fos and jun genes and down-regulated oxidative stress pathways and the transcription factors atf ( activating transcription factor ) and creb ( cyclic amp response element-binding ) .
conclusions our data show that diet-induced weight loss in obese individuals reduces colorectal inflammation and greatly modulates inflammatory and cancer-related gene pathways .
these data imply that obesity is accompanied by inflammation in the colorectal mucosa and that diet-induced weight loss reduces this inflammatory state and may thereby lower crc risk .
swap-70 , a phosphatidylinositol trisphosphate ( ptdins(3,4,5)p(3) ) binding protein , has been suggested to be involved in transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts ( mefs ) as well as membrane ruffling after growth factor stimulation of the cells .
a mutant , swap-70-374 , was found to be able to bind to f-actin in vitro , whereas wild-type swap-70 failed to do so .
this mutant was present at the plasma membrane without any stimulation while the wild-type protein was present only in the cytosol unless cells were stimulated with egf .
expression of this mutant in mefs resulted in morphologic transformation , fast growth , and loss of contact inhibition , suggesting that swap-70 with this mutation can transform the cells .
erk1/2 was activated in swap-70-374-transformed cells .
use of mek inhibitors revealed that the erk1/2 pathway does not affect the cell growth of mefs but is responsible for loss of contact inhibition .
to investigate the function of swap-70 further , drugs that can inhibit swap-70-dependent cell responses were screened .
among various drugs , sanguinarine was found to inhibit transformation of mefs by swap-70-374 .
this drug was able to inhibit swap-70-mediated membrane ruffling as well , suggesting that its effect was closely related to the swap-70 signaling pathway .
these results suggest that swap-70-374 can activate some signaling pathways , including the erk1/2 pathway , to transform mefs .
lewis y ( ley ) antigen is a difucosylated oligosaccharide carried by glycoconjugates on the cell surface .
overexpression of ley is frequently observed in epithelial-derived cancers and has been correlated to the pathological staging and prognosis .
however , the effects of ley on ovarian cancer are not yet clear .
previously , we transfected the ovarian cancer cell line rmg-i with the 1,2-fucosyltransferase gene to obtain stable transfectants , rmg-i-h , that highly express ley .
in the present study , we examined the proliferation , tumorigenesis , adhesion and invasion of the cell lines with treatment of ley monoclonal antibody ( mab ) .
additionally , we examined the expression of tgf-1 , vegf and b-fgf in xenograft tumors .
the results showed that the proliferation and adhesion in vitro were significantly inhibited by treatment of rmg-i-h cells with ley mab .
when subcutaneously inoculated in nude mice , rmg-i-h cells produced large tumors , while mock-transfected cells rmg-i-c and the parental cells rmg-i produced small tumors .
moreover , the tumor formation by rmg-i-h cells was inhibited by preincubating the cells with ley mab .
notably , the expression of tgf-1 , vegf and b-fgf all increased in rmg-i-h cells .
in conclusion , ley plays an important role in promoting cell proliferation , tumorigenecity and adhesion , and these effects may be related to increased levels of growth factors .
the ley antibody shows potential application in the treatment of ley-positive tumors .
maintenance of genomic integrity is essential for adult tissue homeostasis and defects in the dna-damage response ( ddr ) machinery are linked to numerous pathologies including cancer .
here , we present evidence that the ddr exerts tumor suppressor activity in gliomas .
we show that genes encoding components of the ddr pathway are frequently altered in human gliomas and that loss of elements of the atm/chk2/p53 cascade accelerates tumor formation in a glioma mouse model .
we demonstrate that chk2 is required for glioma response to ionizing radiation in vivo and is necessary for dna-damage checkpoints in the neuronal stem cell compartment .
finally , we observed that the ddr is constitutively activated in a subset of human gbms , and such activation correlates with regions of hypoxia .
melanoma progression is associated with the expression of different growth factors , cytokines , and chemokines .
because tgf1 is a pleiotropic cytokine involved not only in physiologic processes but also in cancer development , we analyzed in a375 human melanoma cells , the effect of tgf1 on monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 ( mcp-1 ) and interleukin-10 ( il-10 ) expression , two known factors responsible for melanoma progression .
tgf1 increased the expression of mcp-1 and il-10 in a375 cells , an effect mediated by the cross-talk between smad , pi3k ( phosphoinositide 3-kinase)/akt , and braf-mapk ( mitogen activated protein kinase ) signaling pathways .
supernatants from tgf1-treated a375 cells enhanced mcp-1-dependent migration of monocytes , which , in turn , expressed high levels of tgf,1 , bfgf , and vegf mrna .
moreover , these supernatants also inhibited functional properties of dendritic cells through il-10-dependent mechanisms .
when using in vitro , the tgf1-blocking peptide p144 , tgf1-dependent smad3 phosphorylation , and expression of mcp-1 and il-10 were inhibited .
in vivo , treatment of a375 tumor-bearing athymic mice with p144 significantly reduced tumor growth , associated with a lower macrophage infiltrate and decreased intratumor mcp-1 and vegf levels , as well as angiogenesis .
finally , in c57bl/6 mice with b16-ova melanoma tumors , when administered with immunotherapy , p144 decreased tumor growth and intratumor il-10 levels , linked to enhanced activation of dendritic cells and natural killer cells , as well as anti-ova t-cell responses .
these results show new effects of tgf1 on melanoma cells , which promote tumor progression and immunosuppression , strongly reinforcing the relevance of this cytokine as a molecular target in melanoma .
radiotherapy is a useful component of treatment strategies for esophageal cancer .
the role of autophagy in response to ionizing radiation was investigated in human esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
cell viability and clonogenic survival assay were used to evaluate the radiosensitivity of autophagy inhibitor ( 3-ma ) on esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
the percentage of apoptotic cells and cell cycle analysis were assessed by flow cytometry ; dapi staining was used to detect apoptotic cells .
the expression of beclin-1 and lc3 was measured using a western blot .
the ultrastructural analysis was under the electron microscope. 6gy irradiation induced a massive accumulation of autophagosomes accompanied by strong upregulation of beclin-1 and lc3-ii expression in te-1 cells .
compared with radiation alone , 3-ma combined with radiation significantly decreased cell viability , as well as autophagic ratio , beclin-1 , and lc3-ii protein level .
inhibition of autophagy increased radiation-induced apoptosis and the percentage of g2/m-phase cells .
blockade of autophagy with 3-ma enhanced cytotoxicity of radiotherapy in human esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
it suggests that inhibition of autophagy could be used as adjuvant therapy to treat esophageal squamous cell carcinoma .
currently there is no good hepatocyte model for studying growth hormone ( gh ) function that reflects its normal physiological roles .
here we report the establishment of a functional hepatocyte cell line , sdrl-1 , from the liver of young male spontaneous dwarf rats ( sdr ) , with isolated gh deficiency .
this line has been maintained in dulbecco's modified eagle medium ( dmem)/f12 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum ( fbs ) with retention of a near diploid karyotype for extended periods of time .
when grown as a monolayer sheet , it displayed a pavement-like appearance and contact inhibition .
these cells have a poorly developed rough endoplasmic reticulum ( r-er ) , few mitochondria and glycogen granules , and produce a small amount of albumin and -fetoprotein , that is enhanced when grown on a collagen gel sponge .
human recombinant gh stimulated jak2 and stat5b tyrosine phosphorylation and igf-i production in a concentration-dependent manner .
when the cells were cultured with gh-supplemented medium , the number of mitochondria and glycogen granules increased together with the r-er and golgi apparatus .
a number of microvilli were observed on the surface of the cultured cells , further suggesting that this cell line is composed of normally functioning hepatocytes .
in summary , we established a novel hepatocyte cell line ( sdrl-1 ) , that appears to display normal function , which we propose can serve as a good in vitro model for studying gh-target organ interactions .
the polycomb group family protein bmi-1 is overexpressed by and functions as an oncogene in many different human cancers .
we have previously shown that bmi-1 promotes the tumorigenicity of ewing sarcoma family tumors ( esfts ) and that this is mediated independently of cdkn2a repression .
in this study , we have discovered that high levels of bmi-1 confer resistance to contact inhibition in esft cells .
using stable retroviral transduction , we evaluated the consequences of bmi-1 knockdown on the growth of cdkn2a wild-type and mutant esft cells in subconfluent and confluent conditions .
although knockdown of bmi-1 had no effect on proliferation in low-density cultures , at high cell densities it resulted in cell cycle arrest and death .
the normal cell contact inhibition response is mediated , in large part , by the recently described hippo pathway which functions to inhibit cell proliferation and promote cell death by inactivating the yes-associated protein ( yap ) .
significantly , we found that yap levels , activity and expression did not diminish in confluent esft cells that expressed high levels of bmi-1 .
in contrast , yap expression and nuclear localization were reduced in confluent bmi-1 knockdown cells suggesting that silencing of bmi-1 restored contact inhibition by restoring normal activation of the hippo-yap growth-suppressor pathway .
importantly , knockdown of yap in esft cells resulted in profound inhibition of cell proliferation and anchorage-independent colony formation suggesting that stabilization and continued expression of yap is critical for esft growth and tumorigenicity .
together , these studies reveal a previously unrecognized link between bmi-1 , contact inhibition and the hippo-yap pathway and suggest that resistance to contact inhibition in bmi-1 overexpressing cancer cells may be in part a result of hippo inhibition and aberrant stabilization of yap .
extensive biochemical and structural analyses have been performed on the putative dna repair proteins of hyperthermophilic archaea , in contrast to the few genetic analyses of the genes encoding these proteins .
accordingly , little is known about the repair pathways used by archaeal cells at high temperature .
here , we attempted to disrupt the genes encoding the potential repair proteins in the genome of the hyperthermophilic archaeon thermococcus kodakaraensis .
we succeeded in isolating null mutants of the hjc , hef , hjm , xpb , and xpd genes , but not the rada , rad50 , mre11 , hera , nura , and xpg/fen1 genes .
phenotypic analyses of the gene-disrupted strains showed that the xpb and xpd null mutants are only slightly sensitive to ultraviolet ( uv ) irradiation , methyl methanesulfonate ( mms ) and mitomycin c ( mmc ) , as compared with the wild-type strain .
the hjm null mutant showed sensitivity specifically to mitomycin c. on the other hand , the null mutants of the hjc gene lacked increasing sensitivity to any type of dna damage .
the hef protein is particularly important for maintaining genome homeostasis , by functioning in the repair of a wide variety of dna damage in t. kodakaraensis cells .
deletion of the entire hef gene or of the segments encoding either its nuclease or helicase domain produced similar phenotypes .
the high sensitivity of the hef mutants to mmc suggests that hef performs a critical function in the repair process of dna interstrand cross-links .
these damage-sensitivity profiles suggest that the archaeal dna repair system has processes depending on repair-related proteins different from those of eukaryotic and bacterial dna repair systems using homologous repair proteins analyzed here .
dna damage checkpoints in the cell cycle may be important barriers against cancer progression in human cells .
fanconi anemia ( fa ) is an inherited dna instability disorder that is associated with bone marrow failure and a strong predisposition to cancer .
although fa cells experience constitutive chromosomal breaks , cell cycle arrest at the g2 dna damage checkpoint , and an excess of cell death , some patients do become clinically stable , and the mechanisms underlying this , other than spontaneous reversion of the disease-causing mutation , are not well understood .
here we have defined a clonal phenotype , termed attenuation , in which fa patients acquire an abrogation of the g2 checkpoint arrest .
attenuated cells expressed lower levels of chk1 ( also known as chek1 ) and p53 .
the attenuation could be recapitulated by modulating the atr/chk1 pathway , and chk1 inhibition protected fa cells from cell death .
fa patients who expressed the attenuated phenotype had mild bone marrow deficiency and reached adulthood , but several of them eventually developed myelodysplasia or leukemia .
better understanding of attenuation might help predict a patient's clinical course and guide choice of treatment .
our results also highlight the importance of evaluating the cellular dna damage checkpoint and repair pathways in cancer therapies in general .
background induction of osteolytic bone lesions in multiple myeloma is caused by an uncoupling of osteoclastic bone resorption and osteoblastic bone formation .
current management of myeloma bone disease is limited to the use of antiresorptive agents such as bisphosphonates .
methodology/principal findings we tested the effects of daily administered parathyroid hormone ( pth ) on bone disease and myeloma growth , and we investigated molecular mechanisms by analyzing gene expression profiles of unique myeloma cell lines and primary myeloma cells engrafted in scid-rab and scid-hu mouse models .
pth resulted in increased bone mineral density of myelomatous bones and reduced tumor burden , which reflected the dependence of primary myeloma cells on the bone marrow microenvironment .
treatment with pth also increased bone mineral density of uninvolved murine bones in myelomatous hosts and bone mineral density of implanted human bones in nonmyelomatous hosts .
in myelomatous bone , pth markedly increased the number of osteoblasts and bone-formation parameters , and the number of osteoclasts was unaffected or moderately reduced .
pretreatment with pth before injecting myeloma cells increased bone mineral density of the implanted bone and delayed tumor progression .
human global gene expression profiling of myelomatous bones from scid-hu mice treated with pth or saline revealed activation of multiple distinct pathways involved in bone formation and coupling ; involvement of wnt signaling was prominent .
treatment with pth also downregulated markers typically expressed by osteoclasts and myeloma cells , and altered expression of genes that control oxidative stress and inflammation .
pth receptors were not expressed by myeloma cells , and pth had no effect on myeloma cell growth in vitro .
conclusions/significance we conclude that pth-induced bone formation in myelomatous bones is mediated by activation of multiple signaling pathways involved in osteoblastogenesis and attenuated bone resorption and myeloma growth ; mechanisms involve increased osteoblast production of anti-myeloma factors and minimized myeloma induction of inflammatory conditions .
our purpose in this randomized , double blind , placebo controlled study was to find out the possible effect of a polyphenolic pine bark extract , pycnogenol ( pyc ) on the level of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine ( 8-oxog ) as representative of oxidative damage to dna and on the dna repair ability of elderly people .
according to our results , three months of pyc administration had no effect on the level of oxidative damage to dna or on repair ability , but we found a relationship between the level of 8-oxog and repair ability of dna in this group .
to conclude , even if the positive effect of pyc was not confirmed in the case of elderly people it is important to highlight the necessity of further investigations about the mechanisms of pyc acting on different age groups .
dentin matrix protein 1 ( dmp1 ) is a member of the small integrin-binding ligand n-linked glycoprotein ( sibling ) family , a group of proteins initially described as mineralized extracellular matrices components .
more recently , siblings have been implicated in several key steps of cancer progression , including angiogenesis .
although proangiogenic activities have been demonstrated for 2 siblings , the role of dmp1 in angiogenesis has not yet been addressed .
we demonstrate that this extracellular matrix protein induced the expression of vascular endothelial cadherin ( ve-cadherin ) , a key regulator of intercellular junctions and contact inhibition of growth of endothelial cells that is also known to modulate vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( vegfr-2 ) activity , the major high-affinity receptor for vegf .
dmp1 induced ve-cadherin and p27(kip1) expression followed by cell-cycle arrest in human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( huvecs ) in a cd44-dependent manner .
vegf-induced proliferation , migration , and tubulogenesis responses were specifically blocked on dmp1 pretreatment of huvecs .
indeed , after ve-cadherin induction , dmp1 inhibited vegfr-2 phosphorylation and src-mediated signaling .
however , dmp1 did not interfere with basic fibroblast growth factor-induced angiogenesis .
in vivo , dmp1 significantly reduced laser-induced choroidal neovascularization lesions and tumor-associated angiogenesis .
these data enable us to put dmp1 on the angiogenic chessboard for the first time and to identify this protein as a new specific inhibitor of vegf-induced angiogenesis .
pegylated interferon-2b ( pifn- ) is an integral part of the drug regimen currently employed against melanoma .
interferon regulatory factor-1 ( irf-1 ) plays an important role in the transcriptional regulation of the ifn response , cell cycle and apoptosis .
we have studied pifn- induced responses when combined with the chemotherapy agent , vinblastine in tumor and endothelial cell lines and the connection to irf-1 signaling .
levels of irf-1/irf-2 protein expression were found to be decreased in tumor versus normal tissues. pifn- induced irf-1 signaling in human melanoma ( m14 ) and endothelial ( ea.hy926 ) cells and enhanced cell death when combined with vinblastine .
upon combined ifn- and vinblastine treatment , p21 expression , parp cleavage and activated bak levels were increased in m14 cells .
an increase in p21 and cyclin d1 expression occurred in ea.hy926 cells after 6 h of treatment with pifn- which dissipated by 24 h .
this biphasic response , characteristic of cellular senescence , was more pronounced upon combined treatment .
exposure of the ea.hy926 cells to pifn- was associated with an enlarged , multinucleated , -galactosidase-positive senescent phenotype .
the overall therapeutic mechanism of ifn- combined with chemotherapy may be due to both direct tumor cell death via irf-1 signaling and by premature senescence of endothelial cells and subsequent effects on angiogenesis in the tumor microenvironment .
chemoprevention is one feasible approach to decreasing morbidity and mortality of non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) .
the present study aimed to explore the mechanisms of chemoprevention of nsclc by prunella vulgaris l .
( pv ) using a pv extract of 60% ethanol ( p-60 ) .
in an a/j mouse model benzo[a]pyrene induction of lung tumors was significantly reduced difference by p-60 group .
in addition , p-60 was found to have the ability to regulate cell cycle and induce apoptosis in spc-a-1 cells .
therefore , we propose that p-60 has potential as a lung cancer chemopreventive agent .
unlabelled oxygen free radicals and their reactive derivatives participate in formation of chronic inflammation states , which facilitate development of gastrointestinal tract tumors .
oxidative stress is one of the main causes of damage to cell membranes in result of exacerbated lipid peroxidation process .
end products of lipid peroxidation ( aldehydes , organic peroxides ) react with important biological macromolecules such as dna and proteins , cause changes in cell membrane structure and properties leading to loss of its integrity .
intensification of the lipid peroxidation process is a factor which may also lead to a malfunction in the antioxidant barrier , which further weakens the defense of cells against oxygen free radicals and promotes the onset and development of cancer .
the aim of the study was the determination of lipid peroxidation level in gastrointestinal tract tumors ( stomach , liver , colon , and colorectal cancer to liver metastases ) .
material and methods materials for studies were obtained from 150 patients with gastrointestinal tract tumors : 10 with stomach cancer , 30 with malignant and benign liver cancers , 60 with primary colorectal cancer , and 50 with metachronous colorectal cancer liver metastases .
we also investigated 25 patients with liver cirrhosis , which was treated as a pre-cancerous condition .
in total , 175 patients were examined .
tumor specimens , and normal adjacent tissues ( 6-7 cm from the edge of the tumor ) , which served as control tissue in studies , were collected from patients ( with their consent ) during surgery .
additionally , liver specimens were collected from patients with liver cirrhosis .
lipid peroxidation level was determined spectrophotometrically as a concentration of final lipid peroxidation products , which in reaction with tiobarbituric acid ( tba ) form colour complex ( thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances - tbars ) .
results the study showed the highest concentration of tbars in benign , and the lowest in malignant liver tumors .
other types of gastrointestinal tumors studied , were characterized by similar levels of lipid peroxidation .
tbars concentration in these tumors was approximately 2-fold higher than in malignant liver tumors and much lower than in benign tumors .
in all cancers of the digestive tract with the exception of malignant liver tumors increased level of tbars was found , comparing with control tissue .
the concentration of tbars in cirrhotic liver was lower than in control .
the level of lipid peroxidation in liver cirrhosis and malignant liver tumors was similar .
there were no significant differences in tbars concentration in the tumors of particular sections of the intestine and normal colon .
the highest concentration of tbars was found in g1 grade of colorectal cancer .
in subsequent grades of cells differentiation ( g2 and g3 ) its concentration was lower .
the highest level of lipid peroxidation , expressed as the concentration of tbars was found in the i stage of colorectal cancer clinical advancement .
the significantly lowest concentration of tbars was shown for stage ii ( uicc ) .
conclusions the level of lipid peroxidation in cancerous cells of gastrointestinal tract indicates increased oxidative stress .
the changes of lipid peroxidation level--a marker of oxidative stress in gastrointestinal tumors appear to be closely associated with their development stages ( liver cirrhosis/malignant liver cancer ; colorectal cancer/colorectal cancer liver metastases ) and are likely to create such conditions , in which cancerous cells may proliferate , undergo gradual dedifferentiation and malignancy , and generate metastases .
cigarette smoke ( cs ) is a rich source of radicals , predisposing the cell to oxidative stress resulting in inflammation .
chronic inflammation is a recognized risk factor for carcinogenesis .
cyclooxygenase-2 ( cox-2 ) is a mediator of inflammatory pathway and may , therefore , contribute to carcinogenesis .
there are several reports that suggest the association between cs and cox-2 associated risk to cancer .
in the present study , we examined the role of celecoxib ( a selective cox-2 inhibitor ) in modulating the oxidative stress caused by cs inhalation in mice .
cs exposure for a period of 10 weeks caused oxidative stress in the pulmonary and hepatic tissues , as evident from the increase in lipid peroxidation levels ( lpo ) and decrease in reduced glutathione ( gsh ) levels .
celecoxib ( 125 mg/kg body weight for 8 weeks ) administration to cs inhaling mice reduced the oxidative stress by decreasing the lpo levels and enhancing the gsh levels in comparison to the cs-exposed group .
cs exposure repressed the enzymatic antioxidant defense system , as evident from the decrease in catalase ( cat ) and superoxide dismutase ( sod ) activities .
co-adminstration of celecoxib considerably reversed the changes in the enzymatic antioxidant defense system .
histopathological studies of lungs showed that cs exposure induced alveolar wall destruction and air space enlargement .
in co-treated group , the alveolar septa were thicker than normal with apparent infiltration of inflammatory cells .
in cs-exposed group , hepatic tissue exhibited vacuolization and macrophage infiltration .
co-treatment with celecoxib restored the normal histoarchitechture in hepatic tissues of cs inhaling mice .
thus , the present study demonstrated that celecoxib adminstration reduced the oxidative stress-mediated risk to carcinogenesis , due to its ability to boost the antioxidant defense system .
thrombopoietin ( tpo ) receptor agonists represent a new approach for the treatment of thrombocytopenia , which may develop as a consequence of immune thrombocytopenia , chemotherapy treatment , chronic hepatitis c infection , or myelodysplastic syndromes .
there are concerns that use of certain growth factors can hasten disease progression in some types of hematologic malignancies and solid tumors .
in this study , expression of mpl ( tpo-r ) mrna was examined in tumor cell lines , patient tumor samples ( renal cell carcinoma , prostatic carcinoma , soft tissue and bony/cartilage sarcoma , colon cancer , and lymphoma ) , and normal tissues using microarray analysis and qrt-pcr .
mpl mrna is expressed at very low or undetectable levels compared with erythropoietin receptor ( epor ) , human epidermal growth factor ( erbb2 ; her2 ) , and insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor ( igf1r ) in these patient samples .
these data suggest tpo-r agonists will likely preferentially stimulate proliferation and differentiation of cells of megakaryocytic lineage , potentially demonstrating their utility for correcting thrombocytopenia in clinical settings .
background polymorphisms in dna repair genes are associated with ability to remove dna lesions , and therefore may contribute to an individual's susceptibility to different types of cancer .
base excision repair ( ber ) , and nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) are the main dna repair pathways .
the present study was conducted to determine the frequency distribution of single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snps ) selected for genes in these two pathways i.e .
ogg1 exon 7 ( c1245g ) , xpc intron 9 ( pat ) , and exon 15 ( a33512c ) in a north indian population in comparison with global populations .
methods genotyping was achieved by pcr-based analysis in 224 normal healthy , unrelated individuals of similar ethnicity .
results allelic frequencies in wild type of ogg1 exon 7 c&gt;g were 73% ( c ) ; xpc pat d&gt;i 75% ( d ) ; and xpc exon 15 a&gt;c 60.71.9% a. on the other hand , the variant allele frequency were 27% ( g ) in ogg1 exon 7 c&gt;g ; 25% ( i ) in xpc pat ; and 28.1% ( c ) in xpc exon 15 a&gt;c .
major differences from other ethnic populations were observed .
conclusions our results suggest that frequency distribution in these dna repair genes exhibited a distinctive pattern in our population which could be attributed to ethnic variation .
this could assist in high-risk screening of humans exposed to environmental carcinogens and cancer predisposition in different ethnic groups .
objectives epidermal growth factor ( egf ) stimulates cell proliferation by binding to its receptor ( epidermal growth factor receptor ) , and the overexpression of this receptor is associated with poorer prognosis .
the egf gene presents a polymorphism at position 61 ( a/g ) , associated with higher egf production .
we examined the association between this polymorphism and cervical cancer through a case-control study .
methods this study used the pcr-restriction fragment length polymorphism method on a sample of 384 women with cervical lesions and 500 controls of white ethnicity .
results in cases of cervical cancer , we found an increased risk of progression to advanced disease ( the international federation of gynecology and obstetrics stage iib/iv ) ( odds ratios=2.05 ; 95% confidence intervals=1.11 to 3.79 ; p=0.021 ) , and this risk was particularly evident in g carriers for younger women ( odds ratios=2.96 ; 95% confidence intervals=1.41-6.20 , p=0.003 ) .
conclusions we hypothesize the onset of an advanced disease-driven selective pressure due to the effect of oncogenic human papillomavirus types in a favorable genetic background observed in g carrier women .
these results suggest that egf functional polymorphism may influence cervical cancer prognosis through an egf/epidermal growth factor receptor pathway .
background hesperidin , a flavanone present in citrus fruits , has been identified as a potent anticancer agent because of its proapoptotic and antiproliferative characteristics in some tumor cells .
however , the precise mechanisms of action are not entirely understood .
aim the main purpose of this study is to investigate the involvement of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ( ppar ) in hesperidin's anticancer actions in human pre-b nalm-6 cells , which expresses wild-type p53 .
methods the effects of hesperidin on cell-cycle distribution , proliferation , and caspase-mediated apoptosis were examined in nalm-6 cells in the presence or absence of gw9662 .
the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ( ppar ) , p53 , phospho-ib , bcl-2 , bax , and xiap proteins were focused on using the immunoblotting assay .
the transcriptional activities of ppar and nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-b ) were analyzed by the transcription factor assay kits .
the expression of ppar and p53 was analyzed using the rt-pcr method .
results hesperidin induced the expression and transcriptional activity of ppar and promoted p53 accumulation and downregulated constitutive nf-b activity in a ppar-dependent and ppar-independent manner .
the growth-inhibitory effect of hesperidin was partially reduced when the cells preincubated with ppar antagonist prior to the exposure to hesperidin .
conclusions the findings of this study clearly demonstrate that hesperidin-mediated proapoptotic and antiproliferative actions are regulated via both ppar-dependent and ppar-independent pathways in nalm-6 cells .
these data provide the first evidence that hesperidin could be developed as an agent against hematopoietic malignancies .
scope in this study , we evaluated the efficacy of lycopene against the growth of prostate cancer in vivo .
methods and results athymic nude mice were implanted subcutaneously with human androgen-independent prostate carcinoma pc-3 cells .
they were supplemented with a low or a high dose of lycopene ( 4 and 16mg/kg ) and a single dose of -carotene ( 16mg/kg ) twice a week for 7 wk .
at the end of the experiment , both lycopene and -carotene strongly inhibited the tumor growth , as evidenced by the decrease in tumor volume and tumor weight .
high-dosage lycopene and -carotene significantly decreased the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen in tumor tissues and increased the levels of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-3 in plasma .
in addition , high-dosage lycopene supplementation significantly decreased the vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) levels in plasma .
in contrast , -carotene supplementation significantly increased the vegf levels , as compared with tumor control group .
conclusion lycopene and -carotene supplementation suppressed the growth of prostate tumor cells , and the effects are likely associated with reduction of proliferation ( attenuation of proliferating cell nuclear antigen expression ) and with interference of the insulin-like growth factor 1 signaling ( increased plasma insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-3 levels ) .
furthermore , the inhibition of vegf by lycopene suggests that the antitumor mechanisms of lycopene also involve anti-angiogenesis .
background prostate cancer ( pca ) progression is often associated with transactivation of the androgen receptor ( ar ) by endogenous hormones/growth factors .
one such factor affecting growth , proliferation , and apoptostis ( pro-/anti- ) in various cancers is the adipokine leptin .
this research studied leptin-induced signaling and apoptosis in androgen sensitive ( lncap , pc3/ar ) and insensitive ( pc3 , du145 ) pca cell lines .
methods signaling was studied by immunoblotting in cells overexpressing leptin receptors ( lrb ) , janus kinase 2 ( jak2 ) , and kinase negative-her2-yfp cdnas .
apoptosis was measured by immunoblotting of apoptotic proteins and by hoechst staining of condensed dna .
results leptin rapidly induced activation of jak2 , stat3 , and mapk ( erk1/2 ) signaling cascades ; it may also induce her2 transactivation via leptin-induced phospho-jak2 .
leptin was then shown to exert clear pro-apoptotic effects , increasing levels of caspase 3 , cleavage of its substrate , poly ( adp-ribose ) polymerase ( parp ) to cleaved parp(89) , levels of ck 18 , a cytoskeletal protein formed during apoptosis , and dna condensation .
kinase inhibitors indicated that leptin-induced apoptosis is probably mediated by balanced activation of jak2/stat3 , p38 mapk , and pkc pathways in pca cells .
a human leptin mutein lrb antagonist , l39a/d40a/f41a , fully inhibited leptin-induced phosphorylation of jak2 , erk1/2 , and akt/pkb , and partially abrogated effects on apoptotic proteins .
in lncap and pc3/ar cells , leptin increased ar protein levels in correlation with raised apoptotic markers .
thus , ar may mediate , at least partly , the leptin-induced apoptotic response .
conclusions leptin can clearly induce apoptosis in human pca cell lines .
these findings could lead to development of new leptin agonists with enhanced pro-apoptotic effects and targeted for use in human pca .
e6-associated protein ( e6-ap ) is a dual function protein .
it acts as an e3 ubiquitin-protein ligase enzyme and coactivator of steroid hormone receptors such as estrogen ( er ) and progesterone ( pr ) receptors .
it promotes the degradation of er and pr through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway .
furthermore , it has been shown that the levels of e6-ap are inversely associated with that of er in human breast tumors .
but the role of wild-type human e6-ap and its ubiquitin-protein ligase activity in mammary tumorigenesis is still unknown .
to investigate this role , the authors utilized transgenic mice lines that specifically overexpress either the wild-type human e6-ap ( e6-ap(wt) ) or the ubiquitin-protein ligase defective e6-ap that contains c833s mutation ( e6-ap(c833s) ) in the mammary gland .
to further substantiate the role of e6-ap in the development of breast tumorigenesis , it was also examined the expression of e6-ap in a large cohort of human breast cancer samples .
the transgenic mice that overexpress wild-type e6-ap ( e6-ap(wt) ) fail to develop mammary tumors .
unlike the e6-ap(wt) mice , the e6-ap(c833s) mice that overexpress ubiquitin-protein ligase defective e6-ap protein develop mammary hyperplasia with a median latency of 18months .
these observations suggest that the inactivation of the ubiquitin-protein ligase function of e6-ap is sufficient to initiate the process of mammary tumor development .
furthermore , the data also suggests that e6-ap exerts its effects on target cells by modulating the protein levels and functions of er and pr .
in addition , it was found in human breast cancer patients that the level of e6-ap is decreased in invasive breast tumors compared to normal breast tissue .
moreover , the authors also show that the survival patterns for e6-ap negative patients were worse compared to e6-ap positive patients .
taken together , these data suggests that e6-ap may act as a tumor suppressor in breast .
nk1 is a tachykinin receptor highly relevant to tumorigenesis and metastasis development in breast cancer and other carcinomas .
despite the substantial efforts done to develop potent nk1 receptor antagonists , none of these antagonists had shown good antitumor activity in clinical trials .
now , we have tested the effect of inhibition of the neuropeptide substance p ( sp ) , a nk1 ligand , as a potential therapeutic approach in cancer .
we found that the inhibition of sp with antibodies strongly inhibit cell growth and induce apoptosis in breast , colon , and prostate cancer cell lines .
these effects were accompained by a decrease in the mitogen-activated kinase singaling pathway .
interestingly , in some cell lines sp abrogation decreased the steady state of her2 and egfr , suggesting that sp-mediated signaling is important for the basal activity of these erbb receptors .
in consequence , we observed a blockade of the cell cycle progression and the inhibition of several cell cycle-related proteins including mtor .
sp inhibition also induced cell death in cell lines resistant to lapatinib and trastuzumab that have increased levels of active her2 , suggesting that this therapeutic approach could be also effective for those cancers resistant to current anti-erbb therapies .
thus , we propose a new therapeutic strategy for those cancers that express nk1 receptor and/or other tachykinin receptors , based in the immuno-blockade of the neuropeptide sp .
background expression of epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) , a potent regulator of cellular homeostasis , is associated with aggressive tumor behavior .
the mechanism by which egfr inhibition functions is unclear , with controversial results demonstrating an effect on the tumor cells , endothelial cells , or pericytes .
egfr activation has been linked to the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) , a known mitogen of angiogenesis , but the relationship between these factors and their effect on tumor vessel development is vague .
we hypothesized that using an egfr inhibitor on a human ewing's sarcoma model would inhibit tumor growth by suppressing vessel proliferation .
methods a cell proliferation assay was performed on the ewing's sarcoma ( sk-nep-1 ) cell line .
tumor cells were implanted intrarenally in athymic mice .
animals received daily gavage with vehicle or gefitinib 1 wk following implantation .
mice ( n = 12/cohort ) were euthanized 6 wk following implantation .
remaining mice were maintained without treatment for 2 wk .
vascular changes were assessed by angiography and immunohistochemically .
egfr and vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) expression were quantified using quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( qpcr ) .
results gefitinib suppressed in vitro cell growth with an ic(50) = 1.36 m .
minimal tumor growth suppression was noted at 6 wk ( 6.01  1.2 g in control versus 4.61  0.9 g treated , p = 0.36 ) .
after cessation of gefitinib , tumor growth was increased in both groups ( 7.37  1.62 g versus 6.77  1.53 g , p = 0.79 ) .
microvessel density was unchanged despite egfr inhibition ( 161,000  16,000 pixels versus 135,000  18,000 pixels , p = 0.31 ) .
at 6 wk , the vascular maturity index was similar in both groups ( 3.63  1.12 versus 4.09  1.71 , p = 0.83 ) .
a downward trend in egfr expression ( 49% of control ) and an upward trend in vegf levels ( 50% of control ) occurred in the treated group .
conclusions egfr expression was suppressed in cultured cells and xenograft tumors .
despite a cytotoxic effect on cell lines , gefitinib had little effect on tumor growth .
no effects on the tumor vasculature were noted in the setting of egfr suppression , suggesting that angiogenesis induced by sk-nep-1 cells is refractory to egfr inhibition .
interestingly , the resulting increase in vegf expression following egfr blockade , provides an alternative pro-angiogenic pathway promoting tumor survival .
background androgens and the androgen receptor ( ar ) play important roles in the development of male urogenital organs .
we previously found that mice with total ar knockout ( arko ) and epithelial arko failed to develop normal prostate with loss of differentiation .
we have recently knocked out ar gene in smooth muscle cells and found the reduced luminal infolding and igf-1 production in the mouse prostate .
however , ar roles of stromal fibroblasts in prostate development remain unclear .
methods to further probe the stromal fibroblast ar roles in prostate development , we generated tissue-selective knockout mice with the ar gene deleted in stromal fibroblasts ( fsp-arko ) .
we also used primary culture stromal cells to confirm the in vivo data and investigate mechanisms related to prostate development .
results the results showed cellular alterations in the fsp-arko mouse prostate with decreased epithelial proliferation , increased apoptosis , and decreased collagen composition .
further mechanistic studies demonstrated that fsp-arko mice have defects in the expression of prostate stromal growth factors .
to further confirm these in vivo findings , we prepared primary cultured mouse prostate stromal cells and found knocking down the stromal ar could result in growth retardation of prostate stromal cells and co-cultured prostate epithelial cells , as well as decrease of some stromal growth factors .
conclusions our fsp-arko mice not only provide the first in vivo evidence in cre-loxp knockout system for the requirement of stromal fibroblast ar to maintain the normal development of the prostate , but may also suggest the selective knockdown of stromal ar might become a potential therapeutic approach to battle prostate hyperplasia and cancer .
identification of the proteins that are associated with estrogen receptor ( er ) status is a first step towards better understanding of the hormone-dependent nature of breast carcinogenesis .
although a number of gene expression analyses have been conducted , protein complement has not been systematically investigated to date .
because proteins are primary targets of therapeutic drugs , in this study , we have attempted to identify proteomic signatures that demarcate er-positive and -negative breast cancers .
using highly enriched breast tumor cells , replicate analyses from 3 er+ and 3 er- human breast tumors resulted in the identification of 2,995 unique proteins with 2 peptides .
among these , a number of receptor tyrosine kinases and intracellular kinases that are abundantly expressed in er+ and er- breast cancer tissues were identified .
further , label-free quantitative proteome analysis revealed that 236 proteins were differentially expressed in er+ and er- breast tumors .
among these , 141 proteins were selectively up-regulated in er+ , and 95 proteins were selectively up-regulated in er- breast tumors .
comparison of differentially expressed proteins with a breast cancer database revealed 98 among these have been previously reported to be involved in breast cancer .
by gene ontology molecular function , dehydrogenase , reductase , cytoskeletal proteins , extracellular matrix , hydrolase , and lyase categories were significantly enriched in er+ , whereas selected calcium-binding protein , membrane traffic protein , and cytoskeletal protein were enriched in er- breast tumors .
biological process and pathway analysis revealed that up-regulated proteins of er+ were overrepresented by proteins involved in amino acid metabolism , proteasome , and fatty acid metabolism , while up-regulated proteins of er- were overrepresented by proteins involved in glycolysis pathway .
the presence and relative abundance of 4 selected differentially abundant proteins ( liprin-1 , fascin , dap5 , and -arrestin-1 ) were quantified and validated by immunohistochemistry .
in conclusion , unlike in vitro cell culture models , the in vivo signaling proteins and pathways that we have identified directly from human breast cancer tissues may serve as relevant therapeutic targets for the pharmacological intervention of breast cancer .
the androgen receptor ( ar ) plays a central role in prostate cancer progression to the castration-resistant ( cr ) lethal state .
l-dopa decarboxylase ( ddc ) is an ar coactivator that increases in expression with disease progression and is coexpressed with the receptor in prostate adenocarcinoma cells , where it may enhance ar activity .
here , we hypothesize that the ddc enzymatic inhibitor , carbidopa , can suppress ddc-coactivation of ar and retard prostate tumor growth .
treating lncap prostate cancer cells with carbidopa in transcriptional assays suppressed the enhanced ar transactivation seen with ddc overexpression and decreased prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) mrna levels .
carbidopa dose-dependently inhibited cell growth and decreased survival in lncap cell proliferation and apoptosis assays .
the inhibitory effect of carbidopa on ddc-coactivation of ar and cell growth/survival was also observed in pc3 prostate cancer cells ( stably expressing ar ) .
in vivo studies demonstrated that serum psa velocity and tumor growth rates elevated 2-fold in lncap xenografts , inducibly overexpressing ddc , were reverted to control levels with carbidopa administration .
in castrated mice , treating lncap tumors , expressing endogenous ddc , with carbidopa delayed progression to the cr state from 6 to 10 weeks , while serum psa and tumor growth decreased 4.3-fold and 5.4-fold , respectively .
our study is a first time demonstration that carbidopa can abrogate ddc-coactivation of ar in prostate cancer cells and tumors , decrease serum psa , reduce tumor growth and delay cr progression .
since carbidopa is clinically approved , it may be readily used as a novel therapeutic strategy to suppress aberrant ar activity and delay prostate cancer progression .
ruthenium(ii) methylimidazole complexes , with the general formula [ ru(meim)(4)(nn)](2+) ( nn=tip ( rmc1 ) , iip ( rmc2 ) , dppz ( rmc3 ) , dpq ( rmc4 ) ; meim=1-methylimidazole , tip=2-(thiophene-2-yl)-1h-imidazo [ 4,5-f ] [ 1,10]phenanthroline , iip=2-(1h-imidazol-4-yl)-1h-imidazo [ 4,5-f ] [ 1,10]phenanthroline , dppz=dipyrido[3,2-a:2',3'-c]phenazine , dpq=pyrazino [ 2,3-f ] [ 1,10]phenanthroline ) , were synthesized and characterized .
as determined by mtt ( 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide ) assay , these complexes displayed potent anti-proliferation activity against various cancer cells .
rmc1 inhibited the growth of a549 ( human lung adenocarcinoma ) lung cells through induction of apoptotic cell death , as evidenced by the accumulation of cell population in sub-g1 phase .
rmc1 also induced the depletion of mitochondrial membrane potential in a549 cells by regulating the expression of pro-survival and pro-apoptotic bcl-2 family members .
another experiment showed that bid protein was also activated by rmc1 , which implied that rmc1 could existed two pathways crosstalk , namely , have exogenous death receptor signaling pathway .
these results demonstrated that rmc1 induced cancer cell death by acting on both mitochondrial and death receptor apoptotic pathways , suggesting that rmc1 could be a candidate for further evaluation as a chemotherapeutic agent against human cancers .
glioma tumors are refractory to conventional treatment .
glioblastoma multiforme is the most aggressive type of primary brain tumors in humans .
in this study , we introduce oxidative stress-energy depletion ( osed ) therapy as a new suggested treatment for glioblastoma .
osed utilizes d-amino acid oxidase ( dao ) , which is a promising therapeutic protein that induces oxidative stress and apoptosis through generating hydrogen peroxide ( h2o2 ) .
osed combines dao with 3-bromopyruvate ( 3bp ) , a hexokinase ii ( hk ii ) inhibitor that interferes with warburg effect , a metabolic alteration of most tumor cells that is characterized by enhanced aerobic glycolysis .
our data revealed that 3bp induced depletion of energetic capabilities of glioma cells. 3bp induced h2o2 production as a novel mechanism of its action .
c6 glioma transfected with dao and treated with d-serine together with 3bp-sensitized glioma cells to 3bp and decreased markedly proliferation , clonogenic power and viability in a three-dimensional tumor model with lesser effect on normal astrocytes .
dao gene therapy using atelocollagen as an in vivo transfection agent proved effective in a glioma tumor model in sprague-dawley ( sd ) rats , especially after combination with 3bp .
osed treatment was safe and tolerable in sd rats .
osed therapy may be a promising therapeutic modality for glioma .
background as a highly conserved system , the activation of the notch pathway has been implicated in the tumorigenesis of various hematologic diseases , including leukemias , lymphomas , and multiple myeloma .
the notch3 receptor is frequently expressed in t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( t-all ) .
methods to explore its possibility as a therapeutic target for t-all , we investigated the effect of notch3 silencing on jurkat and supt1 cells using a novel tumor-specific short hairpin rna ( shrna ) driven by survivin promoters .
results we found that downregulated expression of notch3 correlated with significant apoptosis and inhibition of proliferation .
conclusion these facts suggest that downregulating expression of notch3 could attenuate the notch signaling activity in t-all .
all these results indicate that inhibition of notch3 expression can result in potent antitumor activity in t-all .
background hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) is the most common liver cancer .
therapeutic results are usually unsatisfactory because liver tumors recur often .
immunologic factors may be related to the recurrence of hcc ; however , this possibility is mentioned only rarely .
methods thirty hcc patients undergoing hepatectomies were divided into 3 groups according to the diameters of their hccs : group a ( n = 8 ) , diameter 3 cm ; group b ( n = 8 ) , diameter &gt;3 cm and 5 cm ; and group c ( n = 14 ) , diameter &gt;5 cm .
t-lymphocytes from peripheral blood , nontumor liver tissue , and the hcc were analyzed .
results the percentage of cd25+ in the cd4+ t cells did not differ between the peripheral blood and the nontumor liver tissue among the 3 groups .
cd25+ cells were increased in the tumor tissue in group c patients ( range , 6-41% ; median , 22.9% ; p = .003 ) , compared to group a patients .
the percentage of cd25+ in the cd4+ t cells in tumor tissue was positively correlated with tumor sizes ( r = 0.556 ) .
these cd4+ cd25+ lymphocytes produced transforming growth factor- and interferon- but not interleukin-10 , and were anergic to plate-coated monoclonal antibodies ( anti-cd3/anti-cd28 ) .
the characteristics of these antibodies were comparable to those of regulatory t cells .
when the infiltration lymphocytes including cd4+ cd25+ t cells were added to the mixed lymphocyte reaction activated by autologous tumor lysate-pulsed dendritic cells , the proliferation of lymphocytes was inhibited .
conclusion the increase of cd4+ cd25+ t cells in the tumor microenvironment correlates with tumor sizes .
these cd4+ cd25+ regulatory t cells appeared to suppress the immune response activated by dendritic cells .
thyroid hormone ( t(3) ) mediates cellular growth , development , and differentiation by binding to the nuclear thyroid hormone receptor ( tr ) .
recent studies suggest that long-term hypothyroidism is associated with human hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) independent from other major hcc risk factors .
dickkopf ( dkk ) 4 , a secreted protein , antagonizes the wnt signal pathway .
in this study , we demonstrate that t(3) may play a suppressor role by inducing dkk4 expression in hcc cells at both the messenger rna ( mrna ) and protein levels .
dkk4 was down-regulated in 67.5% of hcc cancerous tissues .
the decrease in dkk4 levels was accompanied by a concomitant decrease in tr protein levels in the matched cancerous tissues in 31% of tissues compared by immunoblotting with the adjacent noncancerous tissues .
further , tr and dkk4 expression levels were positively correlated in both normal and cancerous specimens by tissue array analysis .
in function assays , stable dkk4 transfected into j7 or hepg2 cells decreased cell invasion in vitro .
conversely , knocking down dkk4 restores cell invasiveness .
dkk4-expressing j7 clones showed increased degradation of -catenin , but down-regulation of cd44 , cyclin d1 , and c-jun .
to investigate the effect of dkk4 and tr on tumor growth in vivo , we established a xenograft of j7 cells in nude mice .
j7-dkk4 and j7-tr1 overexpressing mice , which displayed growth arrest , lower lung colony formation index , and smaller tumor size than in control mice , supporting an inhibitory role of dkk4 in tumor progression .
conclusion : taken together , these data suggest that the tr/dkk4/wnt/-catenin cascade influences the proliferation and migration of hepatoma cells during the metastasis process and support a tumor suppressor role of the tr .
uncontrolled estrogen exposure can induce an imbalance in bcl2/bax expression in endometrial cells , leading to precancerous lesions and type i endometrial adenocarcinoma .
this study aimed to explore the mechanism underlying this phenomenon .
we show that the activated estrogen receptor can suppress the expression of bax by upregulating a group of micrornas including hsa-let-7 family members and hsa-mir-27a , thereby promoting an increased bcl2/bax ratio as well as enhanced survival and proliferation in the affected cells .
these er-regulated hsa-let-7 micrornas can be detected in most hyperplastic endometria , suggesting their potential utility as indicators of estrogen over-exposure .
nitric oxide ( no ) shows tumoricidal activity .
we had previously reported that no downregulates the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/akt pathway , but upregulates the mek/erk pathway downstream of growth factor signaling .
we hypothesized that no donor and mek inhibitor in combination synergistically inhibit the viability of cancer cells compared to either no donor or mek inhibitor alone .
we determined the effects of s-nitrosoglutathione ( gsno , no-donor ) and u0126 ( mek inhibitor ) on insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) and epidermal growth factor ( egf ) signaling , proliferation and invasion in cancer cell lines .
gsno inhibits phosphorylation of igf-i receptor ( igf-ir ) , egf receptor ( egfr ) and akt , but upregulates erk1/2 phosphorylation in miapaca-2 and hct-116 cells after stimulation by igf-i and egf .
on the other hand , u0126 inhibits phosphorylation of erk1/2 , but upregulates phosphorylation of igf-ir and egfr in miapaca-2 and hct-116 cells .
the combination of gsno and u0126 downregulates phosphorylation of igf-ir , egfr , akt and erk1/2 after stimulation by igf-i and egf .
gsno as well as u0126 , inhibits the proliferation of miapaca-2 , hct-116 , panc-1 , mcf-7 , ht-29 and ags cells in a dose-dependent manner .
gsno and u0126 in combination synergistically inhibit proliferation and invasion of cancer cells .
these results indicate that the combined treatment of no donor and mek inhibitor may be promising in cancer therapy .
zinc dyshomeostasis can induce cell death .
however , the mechanisms involved have not been fully elucidated in prostate cancer ( pca ) cells , which differ dramatically from normal cells in their zinc handling ability .
here , we studied the effects of the ionophore zn-pyrithione ( zp ) and the chelator n,n,n',n'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine ( tpen ) .
both compounds induced cell death at micromolar concentrations when incubated with androgen-dependent ( lncap ) , androgen-independent ( pc3 , du145 ) and androgen-sensitive ( c4-2 ) pca cell-lines .
compared to pca cells , rwpe1 prostate epithelial cells were less sensitive to zp and more sensitive to tpen , but total cellular zinc levels were changed similarly .
znso4 enhanced the toxicity of zp , but inhibited the effects of tpen as expected .
the morphological/biochemical responses to zp and tpen differed .
zp decreased atp levels and stimulated erk , akt and pkc phosphorylation .
dna laddering was observed only at low doses of zp but all doses of tpen .
tpen activated caspase 3/7 and induced parp-cleavage , dna-fragmentation , ros-formation and apoptotic bodies .
pkc and erk-pathway inhibitors , and antioxidants protected against zp-induced but not tpen-induced death .
inhibitors of mptp-opening protected both .
cell death in response to tpen ( but not zp ) was diminished by a calpain inhibitor and largely prevented by a caspase 3 inhibitor .
overall , the results indicated primarily a necrotic cell death for zp and an apoptotic cell death for tpen .
the enhanced sensitivity of pca cells to zp and the apparent ability of zp and tpen to kill quiescent and rapidly dividing cells in a p53-independent manner suggest that zp/tpen might be used to develop adjunct treatments for pca .
insulin-like growth factor ( igf)-i receptor ( igf-ir ) signaling is required for carcinogenicity and progression of several cancers but the function of this pathway and its utility as a therapeutic target have not been studied comprehensively in biliary tract carcinomas ( btc ) .
we investigated the immunohistochemical expression of elements of the igf axis , matrilysin , overexpression of p53 and the methylation status of the igfbp-3 promoter in 80 surgically resected btc .
we also assessed the effect of igf-ir blockade on signal transduction , proliferation and survival in three btc cell lines using a new tyrosine kinase inhibitor , bms-536924 , and dominant negative igf-ir ( igf-ir/dn ) .
the effects of igf-ir blockade was also studied in nude mouse xenograft models .
igf-i was expressed in 60% and igf-ii in 50% of tumors .
high expression was associated with tumor size .
igf-ir was expressed in 69% of the cases and was associated with advanced stage and matrilysin expression .
hypermethylation of the igfbp-3 promoter was detected in 41% of btc and was inversely correlated with p53 expression .
bms-536924 blocked autophosphorylation of igf-ir and both akt and erk activation by both igf-i and insulin .
bms-536924 suppressed proliferation and tumorigenicity in vitro in a dose-dependent fashion .
this inhibitor upregulated chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in a dose-dependent fashion .
moreover , igf-ir blockade was effective against tumors in mice .
igf-ir might identify a subset of btc with a particularly aggressive phenotype and is a candidate therapeutic target in this disease .
bms-536924 might have significant therapeutic utility .
breast cancer is the malignant neoplasia with the highest incidence in women worldwide .
chronic oxidative stress and inflammation have been indicated as major mediators during carcinogenesis and cancer progression .
human studies have not considered the complexity of tumor biology during the stages of cancer advance , limiting their clinical application .
the purpose of this study was to characterize systemic oxidative stress and immune response parameters in early ( ed ; tnm i and ii ) and advanced disease ( ad ; tnm iii and iv ) of patients diagnosed with infiltrative ductal carcinoma breast cancer .
oxidative stress parameters were evaluated by plasmatic lipoperoxidation , carbonyl content , thiobarbituric reactive substances ( tbars ) , nitric oxide levels ( no ) , total radical antioxidant parameter ( trap ) , superoxide dismutase , and catalase activities and gsh levels .
immune evaluation was determined by tnf- , il-1 , il-12 , and il-10 levels and leukocytes oxidative burst evaluation by chemiluminescence .
tissue damage analysis included heart ( total ck and ckmb ) , liver ( ast , alt , ggt ) , and renal ( creatinine , urea , and uric acid ) plasmatic markers .
c-reactive protein ( crp ) and iron metabolism were also evaluated .
analysis of the results verified different oxidative stress statuses occur at distinct cancer stages .
ed was characterized by reduction in catalase , 8-isoprostanes , and gsh levels , with enhanced lipid peroxidation and tbars levels .
ad exhibited more pronounced oxidative status , with reduction in catalase activity and trap , intense lipid peroxidation and high levels of no , tbars , and carbonyl content .
ed patients presented a th2 immune pattern , while ad exhibited th1 status .
crp levels and ferritin were increased in both stages of disease .
leukocytes burst impairment was observed in both the groups .
plasma iron levels were significantly elevated in ad .
the data obtained indicated that oxidative stress enhancement and immune response impairment may be necessary to ensure cancer progression to advanced stages and may result from both host and tumor inflammatory mediators .
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor- ( ppar ) is an anti-inflammatory molecule .
to study its biologic function in myeloid cells , dominant-negative ppar ( dnppar ) was overexpressed in a myeloid-specific bitransgenic mouse model .
in this bitransgenic system , overexpression of the dnppar-flag fusion protein in myeloid-lineage cells abnormally elevated frequencies and total numbers of il-7r(-)lin(-)c-kit(+)sca-1(-) , lin(-)/scal(+)/c-kit(+) , common myeloid , and granulocyte-monocyte progenitor populations in the bm. dnppar overexpression led to up-regulation of il-1 , il-6 , and tnf in the blood plasma .
as a result , cd11b(+)ly6g(+) cells were systemically increased in association with activation of stat3 , nf-b , erk1/2 , and p38 molecules .
myeloid-derived suppressor cells ( mdscs ) inhibited the proliferation and lymphokine production of wild-type cd4+ t cells in vitro .
cd4+ t cells from doxycycline-treated bitransgenic mice displayed reduced proliferation and lymphokine release .
both cd4+ and cd8+ t-cell populations were decreased in doxycycline-treated bitransgenic mice .
multiple forms of carcinoma and sarcoma in the lung , liver , spleen , and lymph nodes were observed in doxycycline-treated bitransgenic mice .
bm transplantation revealed that a myeloid-autonomous defect was responsible for mdsc expansion , immunosuppression , and tumorigenesis in these mice .
these studies suggest that anti-inflammatory ppar in myeloid-lineage cells plays a key role in controlling pro-inflammatory cytokine synthesis , mdsc expansion , immunosuppression , and the development of cancer .
estrogen receptor ( er ) and nf-b are transcription factors with profound effects on breast cancer cell proliferation and survival .
while many studies demonstrate that er and nf-b can repress each other , we previously identified a gene signature that is synergistically upregulated by these two factors in more aggressive luminal b breast tumors .
herein , we examine a novel mechanism of cross talk between er and nf-b that results in the upregulation of the antiapoptotic gene birc3 ( also known as ciap2 ) .
we demonstrate that nf-b , acting through two response elements , is required for er recruitment to an adjacent estrogen response element ( ere ) in the birc3 promoter .
this effect is accompanied by a major increase in nf-b-dependent histone acetylation around the ere .
interestingly , cbp , a histone acetyltransferase previously implicated in repressive interactions between er and nf-b , plays a permissive role by promoting histone acetylation and er recruitment , as well as enhanced expression of birc3 .
these findings suggest a new gene regulatory mechanism by which inflammation and nf-b activation can influence er recruitment to inherently inactive er binding sites .
this fine-tuning mechanism may explain how two factors that generally repress each other's activity may work together on certain genes to promote breast cancer cell survival and tumor progression .
we present a novel gain-of-function mutation of tgf- receptor ii ( trii ) found in human oral squamous cell carcinoma ( oscc ) .
expression of e221v/n238i mutant trii enhanced tgf- signaling .
mutation of trii conferred cells higher migratory and invasive capabilities and mmp-2 activity .
in mouse tumor model , mutant tumors exhibited poor differentiation and e-cadherin relocalization to the cytosol .
lipid-raft-dependent endocytosis of trii was attenuated in mutant trii , suggesting that enhancement of tgf- signaling by this mutation is due to delayed trii internalization .
taken together , our results show a novel gain-of-function trii mutation , which enhances tgf- signaling leading to more invasive phenotypic changes in human oscc .
androgen deprivation is currently a standard-of-care , first-line therapy for prostate cancer in the united states .
although this regimen effectively regresses androgen-dependent disease , relapse often occurs in an androgen-independent manner and is associated with poor prognosis .
such castration-resistant prostate cancer represents a major clinical challenge , and the mechanisms underlying castration resistance are not fully understood .
epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) is a key developmental process and has also been implicated in cancer metastasis and therapeutic resistance in recent years .
however , the factors contributing to emt in human cancers remain unclear .
here , we show that both normal mouse prostate tissue and human lucap35 prostate tumor explants display an emt as well as increased stem cell-like features following androgen deprivation .
importantly , we observed similar changes in mesenchymal features in prostate tumors from patients treated with androgen-deprivation therapy .
in addition , we have delineated a feedback loop involving the androgen receptor and the zeb1 transcription factor that seems to mediate this transition .
in summary , we show for the first time that androgen deprivation induces emt in both normal prostate and prostate cancer , revealing a potentially important consequence of a standard-of-care treatment for prostate cancer .
this finding could have significant implications for second-line treatment strategies in this clinical setting .
p53 has an important role in the processing of starvation signals .
p53-dependent molecular mediators of the warburg effect reduce glucose consumption and promote mitochondrial function .
we therefore hypothesized that the retention of wild-type p53 characteristic of primary glioblastomas limits metabolic demands induced by deregulated signal transduction in the presence of hypoxia and nutrient depletion .
here we report that short hairpin rna-mediated gene suppression of wild-type p53 or ectopic expression of mutant temperature-sensitive dominant-negative p53(v135a) increased glucose consumption and lactate production , decreased oxygen consumption and enhanced hypoxia-induced cell death in p53 wild-type human glioblastoma cells .
similarly , genetic knockout of p53 in hct116 colon carcinoma cells resulted in reduced respiration and hypersensitivity towards hypoxia-induced cell death .
further , wild-type p53 gene silencing reduced the expression of synthesis of cytochrome c oxidase 2 ( sco2 ) , an effector necessary for respiratory chain function .
an sco2 transgene reverted the metabolic phenotype and restored resistance towards hypoxia in p53-depleted and p53 mutant glioma cells in a rotenone-sensitive manner , demonstrating that this effect was dependent on intact oxidative phosphorylation .
supplementation with methyl-pyruvate , a mitochondrial substrate , rescued p53 wild-type but not p53 mutant cells from hypoxic cell death , demonstrating a p53-mediated selective aptitude to metabolize mitochondrial substrates .
further , sco2 gene silencing in p53 wild-type glioma cells sensitized these cells towards hypoxia .
finally , lentiviral gene suppression of sco2 significantly enhanced tumor necrosis in a subcutaneous hct116 xenograft tumor model , compatible with impaired energy metabolism in these cells .
these findings demonstrate that glioma and colon cancer cells with p53 wild-type status can skew the warburg effect and thereby reduce their vulnerability towards tumor hypoxia in an sco2-dependent manner .
targeting sco2 may therefore represent a valuable strategy to enhance sensitivity towards hypoxia and may complement strategies targeting glucose metabolism .
the aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( ahr ) is a ligand-activated transcription factor .
recent studies have reported the anti-tumor effects of the ahr in breast cancer .
in this study , we investigated the anti-tumor effect of ahr activation based on the cancer stem cell hypothesis .
we show that ahr activation suppressed mammosphere formation of mcf-7 cells and decreased the proportion of cells with high aldh-1 ( aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 ) activity .
in addition , we also demonstrate that ahr activation regulates self-renewal signaling by down-regulating wnt/-catenin and notch .
in cancer cells , the aberrant conversion of pyruvate into lactate instead of acetyl-coa in the presence of oxygen is known as the warburg effect .
the consequences and mechanisms of this metabolic peculiarity are incompletely understood .
here we report that p53 status is a key determinant of the warburg effect .
wild-type p53 expression decreased levels of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase-2 ( pdk2 ) and the product of its activity , the inactive form of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex ( p-pdc ) , both of which are key regulators of pyruvate metabolism .
decreased levels of pdk2 and p-pdc in turn promoted conversion of pyruvate into acetyl-coa instead of lactate .
thus , wild-type p53 limited lactate production in cancer cells unless pdk2 could be elevated .
together , our results established that wild-type p53 prevents manifestation of the warburg effect by controlling pdk2 .
these findings elucidate a new mechanism by which p53 suppresses tumorigenesis acting at the level of cancer cell metabolism .
histone deacetylase inhibitors ( hdaci ) are promising epigenetic cancer chemotherapeutics rapidly approaching clinical use .
in this study , we tested using in vitro and in vivo models the differential biological effects of a novel hdac inhibitor [ belinostat ( pxd101) ] , in a wide panel of androgen-sensitive and androgen-independent tumor cells .
belinostat significantly increased acetylation of histones h3 and h4 .
belinostat potently inhibited the growth of prostate cancer cell lines ( ic50 range from 0.5 to 2.5 m ) with cytotoxic activity preferentially against tumor cells .
this agent induced g2/m arrest and increased significantly the percentage of apoptosis mainly in androgen-sensitive tumor cells confirming its growth-inhibitory effects .
the cell death mechanisms were studied in three different prostate cancer cell lines with different androgen dependence and expression of androgen receptor ; lapc-4 and 22rv1 ( androgen-dependent and expressing androgen receptor ) and pc3 ( androgen-independent not expressing androgen receptor ) .
belinostat induced the expression of p21 and p27 , acetylation of p53 and g2/m arrest associated with bcl2 and bcl-xl downmodulation and significant reduction of survivin , iaps and akt/pakt and increased caspase-8 and -9 expression/activity .
belinostat effectiveness was dependent on the androgen receptor ( ar ) , since the stable transfection of ar greatly increased the efficacy of this hdac inhibitor .
these observations were correlated using in vivo models .
we demonstrated that belinostat preferentially resulted in antitumor effect in androgen-dependent tumor cells expressing ar .
our findings provide evidence that belinostat may be a promising anticancer drug for prostate cancer expressing ar , supporting its clinical role in prostate cancer .
objective the her2 receptor is involved in pathways essential for cell proliferation , and is an important predictive and prognostic factor in breast cancer .
her2 probably plays a critical role in many types of cancer , including urothelial carcinoma of the bladder ( ucb ) .
stage t1 ucb exhibits heterogeneous clinical behaviour , and the frequency of her2 expression in such disease has not been thoroughly examined .
the aim of this study was to use an immunohistochemical technique to evaluate the frequency of her2 expression in a defined population-based cohort of patients registered as having primary stage t1 ucb .
material and methods the initial study population comprised 285 patients registered as having primary stage t1 ucb .
the original histological specimens were re-evaluated with regard to t stage and world health organization grade .
hospital records provided information on tumour size , multiplicity , possible presence of histologically proven recurrence and progression .
the patients were followed for at least 5 years or until death .
in tumours still considered stage t1 after re-evaluation , her2 was investigated by immunohistochemistry of paraffin-embedded material and scored according to the guidelines used in breast cancer .
results after histopathological re-evaluation , 201 patients were still t1 ucb and could be investigated regarding her2 expression .
her2 overexpression was observed in 25 of those patients ( 12.4% ) .
her2 status was not significantly associated with recurrence or progression .
conclusions her2 was overexpressed in 12.4% of the present cohort of patients with primary stage t1 ucb .
there was no significant association between tumour her2 status and prognosis .
the aim of the present study was to investigate the apoptosis of human ovarian cancer cell lines , a2780 and cp70 , induced by a novel curcumin analogue , b19 .
the proliferation of cells was detected with methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium ( mtt ) assay and apoptosis was examined by flow cytometry .
reactive oxygen species ( ros ) were assessed by the fluorescent indicator dcf-da .
the protein expression of the endoplasmic reticulum ( er ) stress pathways , grp78 , xbp-1 , atf-4 and chop , was examined with western blotting .
a growth inhibitory effect was observed after treatment with b19 in a dose-dependent manner and with more potential than curcumin .
at 20 m , b19 induced significant apoptosis in cp70 cells .
furthermore , b19 induced the er stress response , while curcumin had no effect on er stress .
these results suggest that b19 has more effective antitumor properties than curcumin , and is associated with the activation of er stress and ros in ovarian cancer cells .
human carcinomas are defined by recurrent chromosomal aneuploidies , which result in a tissue-specific distribution of genomic imbalances .
in order to develop models for these genome mutations and to determine their role in tumorigenesis , we generated 45 spontaneously transformed murine cell lines from normal epithelial cells derived from bladder , cervix , colon , kidney , lung , and mammary gland .
phenotypic changes , chromosomal aberrations , centrosome number , and telomerase activity were assayed in control uncultured cells and in three subsequent stages of transformation .
supernumerary centrosomes , binucleate cells , and tetraploidy were observed as early as 48 hr after explantation .
in addition , telomerase activity increased throughout progression .
live-cell imaging revealed that failure of cytokinesis , not cell fusion , promoted genome duplication .
spectral karyotyping demonstrated that aneuploidy preceded immortalization , consisting predominantly of whole chromosome losses ( 4 , 9 , 12 , 13 , 16 , and y ) and gains ( 1 , 10 , 15 , and 19 ) .
after transformation , focal amplifications of the oncogenes myc and mdm2 were frequently detected .
fifty percent of the transformed lines resulted in tumors on injection into immunocompromised mice .
the phenotypic and genomic alterations observed in spontaneously transformed murine epithelial cells recapitulated the aberration pattern observed during human carcinogenesis .
the dominant aberration of these cell lines was the presence of specific chromosomal aneuploidies .
we propose that our newly derived cancer models will be useful tools to dissect the sequential steps of genome mutations during malignant transformation , and also to identify cancer-specific genes , signaling pathways , and the role of chromosomal instability in this process .
epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( egfr-tkis ) show dramatic antitumor activity in a subset of patients with non-small cell lung cancer who have an active mutation in the epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) gene .
on the other hand , some lung cancer patients with wild type egfr also respond to egfr-tkis , suggesting that egfr-tkis have an effect on host cells as well as tumor cells .
however , the effect of egfr-tkis on host microenvironments is largely unknown .
a multiple organ metastasis model was previously established in natural killer cell-depleted severe combined immunodeficient mice using human lung cancer cells .
this model was used to investigate the therapeutic efficacy of erlotinib , an egfr-tki , on multiple organ metastases induced by human small cell lung cancer cells ( sbc-5 cells ) that did not express egfr .
although erlotinib did not have any effect on the proliferation of sbc-5 cells in vitro , it significantly suppressed bone and lung metastases in vivo , but not liver metastases .
an immunohistochemical analysis revealed that , erlotinib significantly suppressed the number of osteoclasts in bone metastases , whereas no difference was seen in microvessel density .
moreover , erlotinib inhibited egf-induced receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-b expression in an osteoblastic cell line ( mc3t3-e1 cells ) .
these results strongly suggested that erlotinib prevented bone metastases by affecting host microenvironments irrespective of its direct effect on tumor cells .
heat shock protein 27 ( hsp27 ) is emerging as a promising therapeutic target for treatment of various cancers .
although the role of hsp27 in protection from stress-induced intrinsic cell death has been relatively well studied , its role in fas ( death domain containing member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily)-induced apoptosis and cell proliferation remains underappreciated .
here , we show that hsp27 silencing induces dual coordinated effects , resulting in inhibition of cell proliferation and sensitization of cells to fas-induced apoptosis through regulation of pea-15 ( 15-kda phospho-enriched protein in astrocytes ) .
we demonstrate that hsp27 silencing suppresses proliferation by causing pea-15 to bind and sequester extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( erk ) , resulting in reduced translocation of erk to the nucleus .
concurrently , hsp27 silencing promotes fas-induced apoptosis by inducing pea-15 to release fas-associating protein with a novel death domain ( fadd ) , thus allowing fadd to participate in death receptor signaling .
conversely , hsp27 overexpression promotes cell proliferation and suppresses fas-induced apoptosis .
furthermore , we show that hsp27 regulation of pea-15 activity occurs in an akt-dependent manner .
significantly , hsp27 silencing in a panel of phosphatase and tensin homolog on chromosome 10 ( pten ) wild-type or null cell lines , and in lncap cells that inducibly express pten , resulted in selective growth inhibition of pten-deficient cancer cells .
these data identify a dual coordinated role of hsp27 in cell proliferation and fas-induced apoptosis via akt and pea-15 , and indicate that improved clinical responses to hsp27-targeted therapy may be achieved by stratifying patient populations based on tumor pten expression .
a distinct group of breast cancers , called " basal " or " triple-negative " ( tn ) cancers express both basal cytokeratins and the epidermal growth factor receptor , but fail to express estrogen receptors , progesterone receptors or her2 and have stem-like or mesenchymal features .
they are particularly aggressive , are frequently chemo-resistant , with p53 mutation , up-regulation of il-6 and stat3 .
because tn cells are particularly sensitive to the anti-diabetic agent metformin , we hypothesized that it may target jak2/stat3 signaling .
the effects of metformin upon stat3 expression and activation were examined in four human tn cell lines .
metformin's effects were also studied in sublines with forced over-expression of constitutively active ( ca ) stat3 , as well as lines with stable knockdown of stat3 .
metformin inhibited stat3 activation ( p-stat3 ) at tyr705 and ser727 and downstream signaling in each of the four parental cell lines .
ca-stat3 transfection attenuated , whereas stat3 knockdown enhanced , the effects of metformin upon growth inhibition and apoptosis induction .
a stat3 specific inhibitor acted synergistically with metformin in reducing cell growth and inducing apoptosis .
an mtor inhibitor showed no significant interaction with metformin .
in summary , stat3 is a critical regulator of metformin action in tn cancer cells , providing the potential for enhancing metformin's efficacy in the clinical setting .
the innate immune response involves a variety of inflammatory reactions that can result in inflammatory disease and cancer if they are not resolved and instead are allowed to persist .
the effective activation and resolution of innate immune responses relies on the production and posttranscriptional regulation of mrnas encoding inflammatory effector proteins .
the rna-binding protein hur binds to and regulates such mrnas , but its exact role in inflammation remains unclear .
here we show that hur maintains inflammatory homeostasis by controlling macrophage plasticity and migration .
mice lacking hur in myeloid-lineage cells , which include many of the cells of the innate immune system , displayed enhanced sensitivity to endotoxemia , rapid progression of chemical-induced colitis , and severe susceptibility to colitis-associated cancer .
the myeloid cell-specific hur-deficient mice had an exacerbated inflammatory cytokine profile and showed enhanced ccr2-mediated macrophage chemotaxis .
at the molecular level , activated macrophages from these mice showed enhancements in the use of inflammatory mrnas ( including tnf , tgfb , il10 , ccr2 , and ccl2 ) due to a lack of inhibitory effects on their inducible translation and/or stability .
conversely , myeloid overexpression of hur induced posttranscriptional silencing , reduced inflammatory profiles , and protected mice from colitis and cancer .
our results highlight the role of hur as a homeostatic coordinator of mrnas that encode molecules that guide innate inflammatory effects and demonstrate the potential of harnessing the effects of hur for clinical benefit against pathologic inflammation and cancer .
hormone-dependent estrogen receptor positive ( er+ ) breast cancers generally respond well to anti-estrogen therapy .
unfortunately , hormone-independent estrogen receptor negative ( er- ) breast cancers are aggressive , respond poorly to current treatments and have a poor prognosis .
new approaches and targets are needed for the prevention and treatment of er- breast cancer .
the nf-b signaling pathway is strongly implicated in er- tumor genesis , constituting a possible target for treatment .
hydrogen sulfide-releasing aspirin ( hs-asa ) , a novel and safer derivative of aspirin , has shown promise as an anti-cancer agent .
we examined the growth inhibitory effect of hs-asa via alterations in cell proliferation , cell cycle phase transitions , and apoptosis , using mda-mb-231 cells as a model of triple negative breast cancer .
tumor xenografts in mice , representing human er- breast cancer , were evaluated for reduction in tumor size , followed by immunohistochemical analysis for proliferation , apoptosis and expression of nf-b .
hs-asa suppressed the growth of mda-mb-231 cells by induction of g(0)/g(1) arrest and apoptosis , down-regulation of nf-b , reduction of thioredoxin reductase activity , and increased levels reactive oxygen species .
tumor xenografts in mice , were significantly reduced in volume and mass by hs-asa treatment .
the decrease in tumor mass was associated with inhibition of cell proliferation , induction of apoptosis and decrease in nf-b levels in vivo .
hs-asa has anti-cancer potential against er- breast cancer and merits further study .
transcriptional coactivator amplified in breast cancer 1 ( aib1 ) plays important roles in the progression of several cancers such as prostate cancer , breast cancer , and hepatocellular carcinoma .
however , its role in cholangiocarcinoma ( cca ) , a chemoresistant bile duct carcinoma with a poor prognosis , remains unclear .
in this study we found that aib1 protein was frequently overexpressed in human cca specimens and cca cell lines .
down-regulation of aib1 induced the g2/m arrest and decreased the expression of mitosis-promoting factors including cyclin a , cyclin b , and cdk1 through suppressing the akt pathway , which resulted in inhibiting cca cell proliferation .
in addition , aib1 enhanced the chemoresistance of cca cells at least in part through up-regulating the expression of antiapoptotic protein bcl-2 .
aib1 regulated the expression of bcl-2 in cca cells through activating the akt pathway as well as suppressing intracellular reactive oxygen species ( ros ) .
aib1 suppressed ros by up-regulating antioxidants such as glutathione synthetase and glutathione peroxidase , which are targets of the nf-e2-related factor 2 ( nrf2 ) , a critical transcription factor that regulates antioxidants , detoxification enzymes , and drug efflux proteins .
aib1 also increased the expression of another two nrf2 targets , abcc2 and abcg2 , to enhance drug efflux .
aib1 served as an essential coactivator for nrf2 activation by physically interacting with nrf2 to enhance its transcriptional activity .
conclusion : aib1 plays an important role in proliferation and chemoresistance of cca through simultaneous activation of akt and nrf2 pathways , suggesting that aib1 is a potential molecular target for cca treatment .
the dna damage response ( ddr ) cascade and ros ( reactive oxygen species ) signaling are both involved in the induction of cell death after dna damage , but a mechanistic link between these two pathways has not been clearly elucidated .
this study demonstrates that ros induction after treatment of cells with neocarzinostatin ( ncs ) , an ionizing radiation mimetic , is at least partly mediated by increasing histone h2ax .
increased levels of ros and cell death induced by h2ax overexpression alone or dna damage leading to h2ax accumulation are reduced by treating cells with the antioxidant n-acetyl-l-cysteine ( nac ) , the nadp(h) oxidase ( nox ) inhibitor dpi , expression of rac1n17 , and knockdown of nox1 , but not nox4 , indicating that induction of ros by h2ax is mediated through nox1 and rac1 gtpase .
h2ax increases nox1 activity partly by reducing the interaction between a nox1 activator noxa1 and its inhibitor 14-3-3zeta .
these results point to a novel role of histone h2ax that regulates nox1-mediated ros generation after dna damage .
dna repair is essential in maintaining genome integrity and defects in different steps of the process have been linked to cancer and aging .
it is a long lasting question how dna repair is spatially and temporarily organized in the highly compartmentalized nucleus and whether the diverse nuclear compartments regulate differently the efficiency of repair .
increasing evidence suggest the involvement of nuclear pore complexes in repair of double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) in yeast .
here , we show that the human nucleoporin 153 ( nup153 ) has a role in repair of dsbs and in the activation of dna damage checkpoints .
we explore the mechanism of action of nup153 and we propose its potential as a novel therapeutic target in cancers .
imiquimod is a synthetic compound with antitumor properties ; a 5% cream formulation is successfully used to treat skin tumors .
the antitumor effect of imiquimod is multifactorial , although its ability to modulate immune responses by triggering tlr7/8 is thought to be key .
among the immune cells suggested to be involved are plasmacytoid dcs ( pdcs ) .
however , a direct contribution of pdcs to tumor killing in vivo and the mechanism of their recruitment to imiquimod-treated sites have never been demonstrated .
using a mouse model of melanoma , we have now demonstrated that pdcs can directly clear tumors without the need for the adaptive immune system .
topical imiquimod treatment led to tlr7-dependent and ifn-/ receptor 1-dependent ( ifnar1-dependent ) upregulation of expression of the chemokine ccl2 in mast cells .
this was essential to induce skin inflammation and for the recruitment of pdcs to the skin .
the recruited pdcs were cd8+ and induced tumor regression in a tlr7/myd88- and ifnar1-dependent manner .
lack of tlr7 and ifnar1 or depletion of pdcs or cd8+ cells from tumor-bearing mice completely abolished the effect of imiquimod .
tlr7 was essential for imiquimod-stimulated pdcs to produce ifn-/ , which led to trail and granzyme b secretion by pdcs via ifnar1 signaling .
blocking these cytolytic molecules impaired pdc-mediated tumor killing .
our results demonstrate that imiquimod treatment leads to ccl2-dependent recruitment of pdcs and their transformation into a subset of killer dcs able to directly eliminate tumor cells .
objective : emerging evidences implicate long noncoding rnas ( lncrnas ) are deregulated in cancer development .
the purpose of the current study is to investigate the role of new lncrna , named plncrna-1 , in prostate cancer ( cap ) pathogenesis .
materials and methods : in this study , real-time q-pcr was used to demonstrate the expression of plncrna-1 in 16 pairs cap tissues and matched normal tissues , 14 pairs cap tissues and bph tissues , 4 cap cell lines , including lncap , lncap-ai , pc3 , and c4-2 , and 2 normal prostate epithelial cell lines rwpe-1 and pwr-1e .
after plncrna-1 was suppressed by sirna in lncap and lncap-ai cell lines , cell proliferation and apoptosis were assessed using cck-8 and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dutp nick end labeling ( tunel ) .
after plncrna-1 and ar was suppressed by sirna in lncap and lncap-ai cell lines , real-time q-pcr and western blotting were used to measure reciprocal regulation of plncrna-1 and ar .
results : we showed that expression plncrna-1 , was significantly higher in cap cells relative to normal prostate epithelial cells , as well as higher in human caps compared with normal tissues and benign prostatic hyperplasia ( bph ) .
silencing of plncrna-1 significantly reduced cell proliferation and induced apoptosis in cap cell lines lncap and lncap-ai .
mechanistically , plncrna-1 suppression by sirna resulted in a decrease of androgen receptor ( ar ) mrna , protein and ar downstream target .
of note , blockade of ar signaling with sirna also resulted in a suppression of plncrna-1 expression in cap cell lines .
conclusions : our study suggests reciprocal regulation of plncrna-1 and androgen receptor contribute to cap pathogenesis and that plncrna-1 is a potential therapy target .
the atm kinase and p53 are key tumor suppressor factors that control the genotoxic stress response pathway .
the atm substrate mdm2 controls p53 activity by either targeting p53 for degradation or promoting its synthesis by binding the p53 mrna .
the physiological role and regulation of mdm2's dual function toward p53 is not known .
here we show that atm-dependent phosphorylation of mdm2 at ser395 is required for the p53 mrna-mdm2 interaction .
this event also promotes sumo-conjugation of mdm2 and its nucleoli accumulation .
interfering with the p53 mrna-mdm2 interaction prevents p53 stabilization and activation following dna damage .
these results demonstrate how atm activity switches mdm2 from a negative to a positive regulator of p53 via the p53 mrna .
the ras association domain family 1 isoform a ( rassf1a ) is a tumor suppressor whose inactivation is implicated in the development of many human cancers , including breast carcinomas .
little is known about the tumor-suppressive function of rassf1a in breast tissue and whether its inactivation is mechanistically involved in the initiation and progression of breast tumors .
here , we show that rassf1a inhibits breast cancer growth in vivo , and suppresses estrogen receptor ( er ) expression and function .
reconstitution of rassf1a in mcf7 cells led to decreased er levels and reduced sensitivity to estrogen ( e2 ) .
concomitantly , we observed decreased expression of id1 as well as the e2-responsive genes bcl-2 and c-myc that cooperatively contribute to the immortalization and transformation of breast epithelial cells .
this downregulation was associated with induction of cell-cycle arrest and senescence that constitute early barriers to cancer initiation and progression .
knockdown of er showed that downregulation of er suffices to increase senescence and inhibit expression of bcl-2 , c-myc and id1 .
however , enforced expression of er only partially rescued rassf1a-mediated growth inhibition and senescence , suggesting that suppression of er expression and activity is not the only mechanism by which rassf1a inhibits growth and survival of breast cancer cells .
ectopic expression of bcl-2 , c-myc and id1 had little or no effect on rassf1a-mediated growth arrest , indicating that rassf1a acts dominantly over these oncogenes .
mechanistically , rassf1a was found to suppress er expression through akt1 .
it also transiently inhibited er-induced ras-mapk activity after exposure of cells to e2 .
together , our data show that rassf1a acts as a tumor suppressor in er+ mammary epithelial cells , in part through inhibiting er expression and activity .
these findings suggest that rassf1a has a key role in suppressing the transformation of human breast epithelial cells and er+ breast cancer initiation .
curcumin ( cur ; diferuloylmethane ) , a rhizome extract of curcuma longa l. is commonly used as a food coloring and flavoring agent .
although oriental and ayurvedic medicines have traditionally used cur in the treatment of diseases , conventional medicine has just begun to recognize its potential therapeutic value .
numerous recent studies have demonstrated the ability of cur to halt or prevent certain types of cancer , decrease inflammation , and improve cardiovascular health .
however , very few studies have examined its ability to protect against drug-induced organ injury .
this study explored whether cur pre-exposure has the potential to prevent acetaminophen ( apap)-induced : ( i ) hepatotoxicity , ( ii ) genomic injury , ( iii ) oxidative stress in the liver , and ( iv ) apoptotic and necrotic cell deaths in the liver in vivo .
additional goals were to investigate the interplay of pro- and anti-apoptotic genes and their ultimate impact on various forms of cell death .
in order to study the cur-apap interaction , male b6c3f1 mice were gavaged with cur ( 17 mg/kg/day , p.o. ) for 12 days followed by a single apap exposure ( 400 mg/kg , ip ) .
four groups of animals ( control , cur , apap , cur+apap ) were sacrificed 24 h after apap exposure .
the results indicated that apap-induced liver injury associated events as serum alt ( 80-fold ) , lipid peroxidation ( 357% ) and dna fragmentation ( 469% ) were markedly reduced to 3-fold , 134% and 162% , respectively , in the cur+apap group .
the apap-induced increase in expression of pro-apoptotic genes ( bax , caspase-3 ) decreased while expression of anti-apoptotic genes ( bcl-xl ) increased in cur preexposed mouse livers , and these changes were mirrored in the pattern of apoptotic and necrotic cell deaths .
levels of dna damage sensor p and its counterpart mdm2 were also analyzed during this interaction .
based on the available literature , and these results , it seems likely that cur may impart global protection in vivo against drug-induced liver injury by opposing several crucial events instrumental to both apoptosis and necrosis .
it is prevailingly thought that the antiestrogens tamoxifen and ici 182 , 780 are competitive antagonists of the estrogen-binding site of the estrogen receptor-alpha ( er- ) .
however , a plethora of evidence demonstrated both antiestrogens exhibit agonist activities in different systems such as activation of the membrane-initiated signaling pathways .
the mechanisms by which antiestrogens mediate estrogen-like activities have not been fully established .
previously , a variant of er- , ep-36 , has been cloned and showed to mediate membrane-initiated estrogen and antiestrogen signaling in cells only expressing er-36 .
here , we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the antiestrogen signaling in er-negative breast cancer mda-mb-231 and mda-mb-436 cells that express high levels of endogenous er-36 .
we found that the effects of both 4-hydoxytamoxifen ( 4-oht ) and ici 182 , 780 ( ici ) exhibited a non-monotonic , or biphasic dose response curve ; antiestrogens at low concentrations , elicited a mitogenic signaling pathway to stimulate cell proliferation while at high concentrations , antiestrogens inhibited cell growth .
antiestrogens at l nm induced the phosphorylation of the src-y416 residue , an event to activate src , while at 5 m induced src-y527 phosphorylation that inactivates src .
antiestrogens at 1 nm also induced phosphorylation of the mapk/erk and activated the cyclin d1 promoter activity through the src/egfr/stat5 pathways but not at 5 m .
knock-down of er-36 abrogated the biphasic antiestrogen signaling in these cells .
our results thus indicated that er-36 mediates biphasic antiestrogen signaling in the er-negative breast cancer cells and src functions as a switch of antiestrogen signaling dependent on concentrations of antiestrogens through the egfr/stat5 pathway .
the published results on nanoparticles cytotoxicity and genotoxicity such as titanium dioxide nanoparticles ( tio(2) nps ) are inconsistent , and often conflicting and insufficient .
since different parameters may have impact on the toxicity results , there is need to lay stress on detailed characterization of nps and the use of different testing conditions for assessment of nps toxicity .
in order to investigate whether dispersion procedures influence np cytotoxicity and genotoxicity , we compared two protocols giving tio(2) np dispersions with different stability and agglomeration states .
detailed primary and secondary characteristics of both tio(2) np dispersions in culture media were carried out before toxicological testing ; tk6 human lymphoblast cells , eue human embryonic epithelial cells and cos-1 monkey kidney fibroblasts were used to assess cytotoxicity ( by trypan blue exclusion , proliferation activity and plating efficiency assays ) and genotoxicity ( by the comet assay ) .
dna strand breaks were detected by the alkaline comet assay .
dna oxidation lesions ( especially 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine , 8-oxog ) were measured with a modified comet assay including incubation with specific repair enzyme formamidopyrimidine dna glycosylase ( fpg ) .
the tio(2) nps dispersion with large agglomerates ( 3 min sonication and no serum in stock solution ) induced dna damage in all three cell lines , while the tio(2) nps dispersed with agglomerates less than 200 nm ( foetal serum in stock solution and sonication 15 min ) had no effect on genotoxicity .
an increased level of dna oxidation lesions detected in cos-1 and tk6 cells indicates that the leading mechanism by which tio(2) nps trigger genotoxicity is most likely oxidative stress .
our results show that the dispersion method used can influence the results of toxicity studies .
therefore at least two different dispersion procedures should be incorporated into assessment of cyto- and genotoxic effects of nps .
it is important , when assessing the hazard associated with nps , to establish standard testing procedures and thorough strategies to consider the diverse conditions relevant to possible exposures .
p53 is a well-known transcription factor that controls cell cycle arrest and cell death in response to a wide range of stresses .
moreover , p53 regulates glucose metabolism and its mutation results in the metabolic switch to the warburg effect found in cancer cells .
nucleotide biosynthesis is also critical for cell proliferation and the cell division cycle .
nonetheless , little is known about whether p53 regulates nucleotide biosynthesis .
here we demonstrated that p53-inducible microrna-34a ( mir-34a ) repressed inosine 5'-monophosphate dehydrogenase ( impdh ) , a rate-limiting enzyme of de novo gtp biosynthesis .
treatment with anti-mir-34a inhibitor relieved the expression of impdh upon dna damage .
ultimately , mir-34a-mediated inhibition of impdh resulted in repressed activation of the gtp-dependent ras signaling pathway .
in summary , we suggest that p53 has a novel function in regulating purine biosynthesis , aided by mir-34a-dependent impdh repression .
various endocrine disrupting chemicals ( edcs ) are exogenous compounds found in the environment and have the potential to interfere with the endocrine system and hormonal regulation .
among edcs , bisphenola ( bpa ) and 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-methoxyphenol)-ethane [ methoxychlor ( mxc) ] have estrogenic activity resulting in a variety of dysfunctions in the e2-mediated response by binding to estrogen receptors ( ers ) , causing human health problems such as abnormal reproduction and carcinogenesis .
in this study , we investigated the effects of bpa and mxc on cell proliferation facilitated by er signaling in human breast cancer cells .
mcf-7 cells are known to be er-positive and to be a highly e2-responsive cancer cell line ; these cells are , therefore , a useful invitro model for detecting estrogenic activity in response to edcs .
we evaluated cancer cell proliferation following bpa and mxc treatment using an mtt assay .
we analyzed alterations in the expression of genes associated with the cell cycle in mcf-7 cells by semi-quantitative reverse-transcription pcr following treatment with bpa or mxc compared to etoh .
to determine whether bpa and mxc stimulate cancer cell growth though er signaling , we co-treated the cells with agonists ( propyl pyrazoletriol , ppt ; and diarylpropionitrile , dpn ) or an antagonist ( ici 182,780 ) of er signaling and reduced er gene expression via sirna in mcf-7 cells before treatment with edcs .
these studies confirmed the carcinogenicity of edcs invitro .
as a result , bpa and mxc induced the cancer cell proliferation by the upregulation of genes that promote the cell cycle and the downregulation of anti-proliferative genes , especially ones affecting the g1/s transition via er signaling .
these collective results confirm the carcinogenicity of these edcs invitro .
further studies are required to determine whether edcs promote carcinogenesis invivo .
background epithelial mesenchymal transition ( emt ) is known to be associated with chemoresistance as well as increased invasion/metastasis .
however , the relationship between emt and resistance to an epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) -targeting drug in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( hnscc ) remains unknown .
in this study , we investigated the acquisition of emt by gefitinib in hnscc cell line ( umscc81b ) .
methods we isolated fibroblastoid variant ( 81b-fb ) from gefitinib-resistant umscc81b-gr3 cells obtained after increasing the doses of gefitinib treatment in vitro and examined emt and its underlying mechanism .
result 81b-fb cells exhibited fibroblast-like morphology , increased motility , loss of e-cadherin , acquisition of vimentin and snail expression .
in 81b-fb cells , downregulation of egfr , which is mediated by increased ubiquitination , and activation of downstream protein kinase b ( akt ) , glycogen synthase kinase-beta ( gsk-3 ) signalling and upregulation of snail expression were observed compared with umscc81b cells .
ly294002 , but not u0126 , suppressed foetal bovine serum or heregulin-1-induced phosphorylation of akt/gsk-3 and snail expression together with the inhibition of 81b-fb cell motility .
furthermore , forced expression of egfr resulted in partial restoration of gefitinib sensitivity and reversal of emt .
conclusion these results suggest that emt in the gefitinib-resistant cells is mediated by the downregulation of egfr and compensatory activation of akt/gsk-3/snail pathway .
vitamin d deficiency is associated with the high risk of colon cancer and a variety of other diseases .
the active vitamin d metabolite 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d(3) ( 1,25(oh)(2)d(3) ) regulates gene transcription via its nuclear receptor ( vdr ) , and posttranscriptional regulatory mechanisms of gene expression have also been proposed .
we have identified microrna-22 ( mir-22 ) and several other mirna species as 1,25(oh)(2)d(3) targets in human colon cancer cells .
remarkably , mir-22 is induced by 1,25(oh)(2)d(3) in a time- , dose- and vdr-dependent manner .
in sw480-adh and hct116 cells , mir-22 loss-of-function by transfection of a mir-22 inhibitor suppresses the antiproliferative effect of 1,25(oh)(2)d(3) .
additionally , mir-22 inhibition increases cell migration per se and decreases the antimigratory effect of 1,25(oh)(2)d(3) in both cell types .
in silico analysis shows a significant overlap between genes suppressed by 1,25(oh)(2)d(3) and mir-22 putative target genes .
consistently , mir-22 inhibition abrogates the 1,25(oh)(2)d(3)-mediated suppression of nell2 , ogn , hnrph1 , rere and nfat5 genes .
in 39 out of 50 ( 78% ) human colon cancer patients , mir-22 expression was found lower in the tumour than in the matched normal tissue and correlated directly with that of vdr .
our results indicate that mir-22 is induced by 1,25(oh)(2)d(3) in human colon cancer cells and it may contribute to its antitumour action against this neoplasia .
approximately 50% of human tumors have a mutation in tp53 .
the pattern and spectra of tp53 mutations often differ between cancer types , perhaps due to different etiological factors .
the hupki ( human tp53 knock-in ) mouse embryo fibroblast ( huf ) immortalization assay is useful for studying mutagenesis in the human tp53 gene by environmental carcinogens .
prior to initiating an immortalization assay , carcinogen treatment conditions must be optimized , which can require a large number of cells .
as primary huf cultures senesce within 2 weeks , restricting their use , we investigated whether immortalized hufs retaining wild-type tp53 can be surrogates for primary hufs in initial treatment optimization .
dna damage by eight compounds found in diesel exhaust , benzo[a]pyrene , 3-nitrobenzanthrone , 1-nitropyrene , 1,3-dinitropyrene , 1,6-dinitropyrene , 1,8-dinitropyrene , 6-nitrochrysene , and 3-nitrofluorene , was assessed by ( 32 ) p-postlabeling and the alkaline comet assay in primary hufs and in an immortal huf cell line j201 .
for most compounds , higher levels of dna adducts accumulated in j201 cells than in primary hufs .
this difference was not reflected in the comet assay or by cell viability changes .
experiments in three additional immortal huf cell lines ( aai49 , u56 , and e2-143 ) confirmed strong differences in dna adduct levels compared with primary hufs .
however , these did not correlate with the protein expression of nqo1 or nat1/2 , or with gene expression of cyp1a1 or cyp1b1 .
our results show that using immortal hufs as surrogates for primary hufs in genotoxicity screening has limitations and that dna adduct formation is the best measure of genotoxicity of the nitro-polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons tested in hufs .
cancer cells preferentially metabolize glucose through aerobic glycolysis .
this phenomenon , known as the warburg effect , is an anomalous characteristic of glucose metabolism in cancer cells .
chronic inflammation is a key promoting factor of tumourigenesis .
it remains , however , largely unexplored whether and how pro-tumourigenic inflammation regulates glucose metabolism in cancer cells .
here , we show that pro-inflammatory cytokines promote glycolysis in breast cancer cells , and that the inflammation-induced mir-155 functions as an important mediator in this process .
we further show that mir-155 acts to upregulate hexokinase 2 ( hk2 ) , through two distinct mechanisms .
first , mir-155 promotes hk2 transcription by activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( stat3 ) , a transcriptional activator for hk2 .
second , via targeting c/ebp ( a transcriptional activator for mir-143 ) , mir-155 represses mir-143 , a negative regulator of hk2 , thus resulting in upregulation of hk2 expression at the post-transcriptional level .
the mir-155-mediated hk2 upregulation also appears to operate in other types of cancer cells examined .
we suggest that the mir-155/mir-143/hk2 axis may represent a common mechanism linking inflammation to the altered metabolism in cancer cells .
electronic properties of dna are believed to play a crucial role in many phenomena in living organisms , for example the location of dna lesions by base excision repair ( ber ) glycosylases and the regulation of tumor-suppressor genes such as p53 by detection of oxidative damage .
however , the reproducible measurement and modelling of charge migration through dna molecules at the nanometer scale remains a challenging and controversial subject even after more than a decade of intense efforts .
here we show , by analysing 162 disease-related genes from a variety of medical databases with a total of almost 20,000 observed pathogenic mutations , a significant difference in the electronic properties of the population of observed mutations compared to the set of all possible mutations .
our results have implications for the role of the electronic properties of dna in cellular processes , and hint at the possibility of prediction , early diagnosis and detection of mutation hotspots .
mast cells ( mc ) are key effector cells in allergic reactions but also involved in host defence , tissue remodeling , angiogenesis , and fibrogenesis .
here , we show that human intestinal fibroblasts ( fb ) suppress apoptosis in human intestinal mc dependent on il-6 .
intestinal fb produced il-6 upon direct stimulation by intestinal mc in co-culture or by mc mediators such as tnf- , il-1 , tryptase or histamine .
mc incubated with il-6 survived for up to 3 weeks similar to mc co-cultured with fb and mc survival could be blocked by neutralizing anti-il-6 abs .
moreover , fb stimulated by mc mediators upregulated their expression of matrix metalloproteinase-1 ( mmp-1 ) , a key fibrolytic enzyme .
noteworthy , fb co-cultured with mc or treated with mmp-1 lost confluence and showed increased numbers of apoptotic cells .
our data indicate an intimate cross talk between mucosal mc and fb resulting in mc survival and induction of a fibrolytic rather than a profibrotic state in fb .
epidemiological studies have indicated that obesity is associated with colorectal cancer .
the obesity hormone leptin is considered as a key mediator for cancer development and progression .
the present study aims to investigate regulatory effects of leptin on colorectal carcinoma .
the expression of leptin and its receptor ob-r was examined by immunohistochemistry in 108 chinese patients with colorectal carcinoma .
the results showed that leptin/ob-r expression was significantly associated with t stage , tnm stage , lymph node metastasis , distant metastasis , differentiation and expression of p-mtor , p-70s6 kinase , and p-akt .
furthermore , the effects of leptin on proliferation and apoptosis of hct-116 colon carcinoma cells were determined .
the results showed that leptin could stimulate the proliferation and inhibit the apoptosis of hct-116 colon cells through the pi3k/akt/mtor pathway .
ly294002 ( a pi3k inhibitor ) and rapamycin ( an mtor inhibitor ) could prevent the regulatory effects of leptin on the proliferation and apoptosis of hct-116 cells via abrogating leptin-mediated pi3k/akt/mtor pathway .
all these results indicated that leptin could regulate proliferation and apoptosis of colorectal carcinoma through the pi3k/akt/ mtor signalling pathway .
clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( ccrcc ) is the most common pathological subtype of kidney cancer .
here , we integrated an unbiased genome-wide rna interference screen for ccrcc survival regulators with an analysis of recurrently overexpressed genes in ccrcc to identify new therapeutic targets in this disease .
one of the most potent survival regulators , the monocarboxylate transporter mct4 ( slc16a3 ) , impaired ccrcc viability in all eight ccrcc lines tested and was the seventh most overexpressed gene in a meta-analysis of five ccrcc expression datasets .
mct4 silencing impaired secretion of lactate generated through glycolysis and induced cell cycle arrest and apoptosis .
silencing mct4 resulted in intracellular acidosis , and reduction in intracellular atp production together with partial reversion of the warburg effect in ccrcc cell lines .
intra-tumoural heterogeneity in the intensity of mct4 protein expression was observed in primary ccrccs .
mct4 protein expression analysis based on the highest intensity of expression in primary ccrccs was associated with poorer relapse-free survival , whereas modal intensity correlated with fuhrman nuclear grade .
consistent with the potential selection of subclones enriched for mct4 expression during disease progression , mct4 expression was greater at sites of metastatic disease .
these data suggest that mct4 may serve as a novel metabolic target to reverse the warburg effect and limit disease progression in ccrcc .
a novel series of n(4)-(3-chlorophenyl)-5-(oxazol-2-yl)pyrimidine-4,6-diamines were synthesized and evaluated as dual inhibitors of her-1/her-2 tyrosine kinases .
in contrast to the currently approved her-2-targeted agent ( lapatinib , 1 ) , our irreversible her-1/her-2 inhibitors have the potential to overcome the clinically relevant and mutation-induced drug resistance .
the selected compound ( 19a ) showed excellent inhibitory activity toward her-1/her-2 tyrosine kinases with selectivity over 20 other kinases and inhibited the proliferation of both cancer cell types : lapatinib-sensitive cell lines ( sk-br3 , mda-mb-175 , and n87 ) and lapatinib-resistant cell lines ( mda-mb-453 , h1781 , and h1975 ) .
the excellent pharmacokinetic profiles of 19a in mice and rats led us to further investigation of a novel therapeutic agent for her-2-targeting treatment of solid tumors , especially her-2-positive breast/gastric cancer and her-2-mutated lung cancer .
the progression of prostate cancers ( pcs ) to locally invasive , androgen-independent and metastatic disease states is generally associated with treatment resistance and disease relapse .
the present study was undertaken to establish the possibility of using a combination of specific oncogenic products , including epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) , pakt , nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-b ) and macrophage inhibitory cytokine-1 ( mic-1 ) as biomarkers and therapeutic targets for optimizing the management of patients with localized pc at earlier disease stages .
the immunohistochemical and immunofluorescence data have revealed that the expression levels of egfr , ser(473)-pakt , nf-b p65 and mic-1 proteins were significantly enhanced in the same subset of 76 cases of prostatic adenocarcinoma specimens during the disease progression and these biomarkers were expressed in a small subpopulation of cd133(+) pc cells and the bulk tumor mass of cd133(-) pc cells .
importantly , all of these biomarkers were also overexpressed in 80-100% of 30 pc metastasis bone tissue specimens .
moreover , the results have indicated that the egf-egfr signaling pathway can provide critical functions for the self-renewal of side population ( sp ) cells endowed with stem cell-like features from highly invasive wpe1-nb26 cells .
of therapeutic interest , the targeting of egfr , pakt , nf-b or mic-1 was also effective at suppressing the basal and egf-promoted prostasphere formation by sp wpe1-nb26 cells , inducing disintegration of sp cell-derived prostaspheres and decreasing the viability of sp and non-sp wpe1-nb26 cell fractions .
also , the targeting of these oncogenic products induced the caspase-dependent apoptosis in chemoresistant sp wpe1-nb26 cells and enhanced their sensibility to the cytotoxic effects induced by docetaxel .
these findings suggest that the combined use of egfr , pakt , nf-b and/or mic-1 may represent promising strategies for improving the accuracy of current diagnostic and prognostic methods and efficacy of treatments of pc patients in considering the disease heterogeneity , thereby preventing pc progression to metastatic and lethal disease states .
background surgical procedures such as liver resection and liver transplantation are the first-line treatments for hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) patients .
however , the high incidence of tumor recurrence and metastasis after liver surgery remains a major problem .
recent studies have shown that hepatic ischemia-reperfusion ( i/r ) injury and endothelial progenitor cells ( epcs ) contribute to tumor growth and metastasis .
we aim to investigate the mechanism of fty720 , which was originally applied as an immunomodulator , on suppression of liver tumor metastasis after liver resection and partial hepatic i/r injury .
methodology/principal findings an orthotopic liver tumor model in buffalo rat was established using the hepatocellular carcinoma cell line mca-rh7777 .
two weeks after orthotopic liver tumor implantation , the rats underwent liver resection for tumor-bearing lobe and partial hepatic i/r injury .
fty720 ( 2 mg/kg ) was administered through the inferior caval vein before and after i/r injury .
blood samples were taken at days 0 , 1 , 3 , 7 , 14 , 21 and 28 for detection of circulating epcs ( cd133+cd34+ ) .
our results showed that intrahepatic and lung metastases were significantly inhibited together with less tumor angiogenesis by fty720 treatment .
the number of circulating epcs was also significantly decreased by fty720 treatment from day 7 to day 28 .
hepatic gene expressions of cxcl10 , vegf , cxcr3 , cxcr4 induced by hepatic i/r injury were down-regulated in the treatment group .
conclusions/significance fty720 suppressed liver tumor metastasis after liver resection marred by hepatic i/r injury in a rat liver tumor model by attenuating hepatic i/r injury and reducing circulating epcs .
partial or whole-brain irradiation is often required to treat both primary and metastatic brain cancer .
radiation-induced normal tissue injury , including progressive cognitive impairment , however , can significantly affect the well-being of the approximately 200,000 patients who receive these treatments each year in the united states .
although the exact mechanisms underlying radiation-induced late effects remain unclear , oxidative stress and inflammation are thought to play a critical role .
microglia are key mediators of neuroinflammation .
peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor ( ppar )  has been shown to be a potent regulator of anti-inflammatory responses .
thus , we hypothesized that ppar activation would modulate the radiation-induced inflammatory response in microglia .
incubating bv-2 murine microglial cells with the ppar agonist l-165041 prevented the radiation-induced increase in : ( i ) intracellular reactive oxygen species generation , ( ii ) cox-2 and mcp-1 expression , and ( iii ) il-1 and tnf- message levels .
this occurred , in part , through ppar-mediated modulation of stress-activated kinases and proinflammatory transcription factors .
ppar inhibited nf-b via transrepression by physically interacting with the p65 subunit and prevented activation of the pkc/mek1/2/erk1/2/ap-1 pathway by inhibiting the radiation-induced increase in intracellular reactive oxygen species generation .
these data support the hypothesis that ppar activation can modulate radiation-induced oxidative stress and inflammatory responses in microglia .
background death receptors ( dr ) of the tnf family function as anti-tumor immune effector molecules .
tumor cells , however , often exhibit dr-signaling resistance .
previous studies indicate that radiation can modify gene expression within tumor cells and increase tumor cell sensitivity to immune attack .
the aim of this study is to investigate the synergistic effect of sub-lethal doses of ionizing radiation in sensitizing colorectal carcinoma cells to death receptor-mediated apoptosis .
methodology/principal findings the ability of radiation to modulate the expression of multiple death receptors ( fas/cd95 , trailr1/dr4 , trailr2/dr5 , tnf-r1 and ltr ) was examined in colorectal tumor cells .
the functional significance of sub-lethal doses of radiation in enhancing tumor cell susceptibility to dr-induced apoptosis was determined by in vitro functional sensitivity assays .
the longevity of these changes and the underlying molecular mechanism of irradiation in sensitizing diverse colorectal carcinoma cells to death receptor-mediated apoptosis were also examined .
we found that radiation increased surface expression of fas , dr4 and dr5 but not ltr or tnf-r1 in these cells .
increased expression of drs was observed 2 days post-irradiation and remained elevated 7-days post irradiation .
sub-lethal tumor cell irradiation alone exhibited minimal cell death , but effectively sensitized three of three colorectal carcinoma cells to both trail and fas-induced apoptosis , but not ltr-induced death .
furthermore , radiation-enhanced fas and trail-induced cell death lasted as long as 5-days post-irradiation .
specific analysis of intracellular sensitizers to apoptosis indicated that while radiation did reduce bcl-x(l) and c-flip protein expression , this reduction did not correlate with the radiation-enhanced sensitivity to fas and/or trail mediated apoptosis among the three cell types .
conclusions/significance irradiation of tumor cells can overcome fas and trail resistance that is long lasting .
overall , results of these investigations suggest that non-lethal doses of radiation can be used to make human tumors more amenable to attack by anti-tumor effector molecules and cells .
we have recently proposed a new two-compartment model for understanding the warburg effect in tumor metabolism .
in this model , glycolytic stromal cells produce mitochondrial fuels ( l-lactate and ketone bodies ) that are then transferred to oxidative epithelial cancer cells , driving oxphos and mitochondrial metabolism .
thus , stromal catabolism fuels anabolic tumor growth via energy transfer .
we have termed this new cancer paradigm the " reverse warburg effect, " because stromal cells undergo aerobic glycolysis , rather than tumor cells .
to assess whether this mechanism also applies during cancer cell metastasis , we analyzed the bioenergetic status of breast cancer lymph node metastases , by employing a series of metabolic protein markers .
for this purpose , we used mct4 to identify glycolytic cells .
similarly , we used to mm20 and cox staining as markers of mitochondrial mass and oxphos activity , respectively .
consistent with the " reverse warburg effect, " our results indicate that metastatic breast cancer cells amplify oxidative mitochondrial metabolism ( oxphos ) and that adjacent stromal cells are glycolytic and lack detectable mitochondria .
glycolytic stromal cells included cancer-associated fibroblasts , adipocytes and inflammatory cells .
double labeling experiments with glycolytic ( mct4 ) and oxidative ( to mm20 or cox ) markers directly shows that at least two different metabolic compartments co-exist , side-by-side , within primary tumors and their metastases .
since cancer-associated immune cells appeared glycolytic , this observation may also explain how inflammation literally " fuels " tumor progression and metastatic dissemination , by " feeding " mitochondrial metabolism in cancer cells .
finally , mct4(+) and to mm20(-) " glycolytic " cancer cells were rarely observed , indicating that the conventional " warburg effect " does not frequently occur in cancer-positive lymph node metastases .
background estrogen receptor  ( er ) is the predominant er in the colorectal epithelium , whose expression is greatly reduced in colorectal cancer compared with normal colon tissue .
recent in vitro studies suggested that er may suppress tumor growth .
no research was reported whether er can be used as therapeutic agent for colon cancer .
methods in this study , er gene constructed into adenoviral ( ad ) vectors was used to treat colon cancer hct-116 cells alone or in combination with raloxifene .
in vitro and in vivo studies were conducted to investigate the therapeutic effects of er and raloxifene in hct-116 cells .
results our results indicated that , although ad-er alone had no effect on the proliferation of hct-116 cells , the combination of ad-er with raloxifene significantly inhibited the proliferation of hct-116 cells .
the apparently apoptotic induction effects may partly explain the cytotoxicity of the two agents .
the results of the study of er on migration and invasion of hct-116 cells demonstrated that overexpression of er significantly decreased cell migration and increased invasion of cells .
the antitumor efficacies of er as well as raloxifene were further investigated on hct-116 tumor bearing mice .
results demonstrated that both ad-er and raloxifene individually inhibited tumor growth .
the combination group showed the highest inhibitory efficiency compared with other three groups .
conclusion these findings demonstrated that combined administration of ad-er with raloxifene represents a promising colon cancer therapeutic strategy .
immortalization ( senescence bypass ) is a critical rate-limiting step in the malignant transformation of mammalian somatic cells .
human cells must breach at least two distinct senescence barriers to permit unfettered clonal evolution during cancer development : ( 1 ) stress- or oncogene-induced premature senescence ( sips/ois ) , mediated via the p16-rb and/or arf-p53-p21 tumour-suppressive pathways , and ( 2 ) replicative senescence triggered by telomere shortening .
in contrast , because their telomerase is constitutively active , cells from small rodents possess only the sips/ois barrier , and are therefore useful for studying sips/ois bypass in isolation .
dermal fibroblasts from the syrian hamster ( shd cells ) are exceptionally resistant to spontaneous sips bypass , but it can be readily induced following exposure to a wide range of chemical and physical carcinogens .
here we show that a spectrum of carcinogen-specific mutational and epigenetic alterations involving the ink4a ( p16 ) , p53 and ink4b ( p15 ) genes are associated with induced sips bypass .
with ionizing radiation , immortalization is invariably accompanied by efficient biallelic deletion of the complete ink4/cdkn2 locus .
in comparison , shd cells immortalized by the powerful polycyclic hydrocarbon carcinogen benzo(a)pyrene display transversion point mutations in the dna-binding domain of p53 coupled with ink4 alterations such as loss of expression of p15 .
epimutational silencing of p16 is the primary event associated with immortalization by nickel , a human non-genotoxic carcinogen .
as sips/ois bypass is a prerequisite for the immortalization of normal diploid human epithelial cells , our results with the shd model will provide a basis for delineating combinations of key molecular changes underpinning this important event in human carcinogenesis .
background neuroblastoma ( nbl ) is a common pediatric solid tumor , and outcomes for patients with advanced neuroblastoma remain poor despite extremely aggressive treatment .
chemotherapy resistance at relapse contributes heavily to treatment failure .
the poor survival of patients with high-risk nbl prompted this investigation into novel treatment options with the objective of gaining a better understanding of resistance mechanisms .
on the basis of previous work and on data from publicly available studies , the authors hypothesized that human epidermal growth factor receptor 4 ( her4 ) contributes to resistance .
methods her4 expression was reduced with small-hairpin rna ( shrna ) to over express intracellular her4 , and the authors tested its impact on tumor cell survival under various culture conditions .
the resulting changes in gene expression after her4 knockdown were measured by using a messenger rna ( mrna ) array .
results her4 expression was up-regulated in tumor spheres compared with the expression in monolayer culture .
with her4 knockdown , nbl cells became less resistant to anoikis and serum starvation .
moreover , her4 knockdown increased the chemosensitivity of nbl cells to cisplatin , doxorubicin , etoposide , and activated ifosfamide .
in mrna array analysis , her4 knockdown predominately altered genes related to cell cycle regulation .
in nbl spheres compared with monolayers , cell proliferation was decreased , and cyclin d expression was reduced .
her4 knockdown reversed cyclin d suppression .
overexpressed intracellular her4 slowed the cell cycle and induced chemoresistance .
conclusions the current results indicated that her4 protects nbl cells from multiple exogenous apoptotic stimuli , including anoikis , nutrient deficiency , and cytotoxic chemotherapy .
the intracellular fragment of her4 was sufficient to confer this phenotype .
her4 functions as a cell cycle suppressor , maintaining resistance to cellular stress .
the current findings indicate that her4 overexpression may be associated with refractory disease , and her4 may be an important therapeutic target .
cigarette smoking is implicated in numerous diseases , including emphysema and lung cancer .
the clinical expression of lung disease in smokers is not well explained by currently defined variations in gene expression or simple differences in smoking exposure .
alveolar macrophages play a critical role in the inflammation and remodeling of the lung parenchyma in smoking-related lung disease .
significant gene expression changes in alveolar macrophages from smokers have been identified .
however , the mechanism for these changes remains unknown .
one potential mechanism for smoking-altered gene expression is via changes in cytosine methylation in dna regions proximal to gene-coding sequences .
in this study , alveolar macrophage dna from heavy smokers and never smokers was isolated and methylation status at 25,000 loci determined .
we found differential methylation in genes from immune-system and inflammatory pathways .
analysis of matching gene expression data demonstrated a parallel enrichment for changes in immune-system and inflammatory pathways .
a significant number of genes with smoking-altered mrna expression had inverse changes in methylation status .
one gene highlighted by this data was the flt1 , and further studies found particular up-regulation of a splice variant encoding a soluble inhibitory form of the receptor .
in conclusion , chronic cigarette smoke exposure altered dna methylation in specific gene promoter regions in human alveolar macrophages .
keratinocyte growth factor ( kgf , fibroblast growth factor-7 ) is a fibroblast-derived mitogen , which stimulates proliferation of epithelial cells .
the expression of kgf by dermal fibroblasts is induced following injury and it promotes wound repair .
however , the role of kgf in cutaneous carcinogenesis and cancer progression is not known .
we have examined the role of kgf in progression of squamous cell carcinoma ( scc ) of the skin .
the expression of kgf receptor ( kgfr ) mrna was lower in cutaneous sccs ( n = 6 ) than in normal skin samples ( n = 6 ) .
expression of kgfr mrna was detected in 6 out of 8 cutaneous scc cell lines and the levels were downregulated by 24-h treatment with kgf .
kgf did not stimulate scc cell proliferation , but it reduced invasion of scc cells through collagen .
gene expression profiling of three cutaneous scc cell lines treated with kgf for 24 h revealed a specific gene expression signature characterized by upregulation of a set of genes specifically downregulated in scc cells compared to normal epidermal keratinocytes , including genes with tumor suppressing properties ( spry4 , dusp4 , dusp6 , lrig1 , phlda1 ) .
kgf also induced downregulation of a set of genes specifically upregulated in scc cells compared to normal keratinocytes , including genes associated with tumor progression ( mmp13 , matn2 , cxcl10 , and igfbp3 ) .
downregulation of mmp-13 and kgfr expression in scc cells and hacat cells was mediated via erk1/2 .
activation of erk1/2 in hacat cells and tumorigenic ha-ras-transformed hacat cells resulted in downregulation of mmp-13 and kgfr expression .
these results provide evidence , that kgf does not promote progression of cutaneous scc , but rather suppresses the malignant phenotype of cutaneous scc cells by regulating the expression of several genes differentially expressed in scc cells , as compared to normal keratinocytes .
switching to a glycolytic metabolism is a rapid adaptation of tumor cells to hypoxia .
although this metabolic conversion may primarily represent a rescue pathway to meet the bioenergetic and biosynthetic demands of proliferating tumor cells , it also creates a gradient of lactate that mirrors the gradient of oxygen in tumors .
more than a metabolic waste , the lactate anion is known to participate to cancer aggressiveness , in part through activation of the hypoxia-inducible factor-1 ( hif-1 ) pathway in tumor cells .
whether lactate may also directly favor hif-1 activation in endothelial cells ( ecs ) thereby offering a new druggable option to block angiogenesis is however an unanswered question .
in this study , we therefore focused on the role in ecs of monocarboxylate transporter 1 ( mct1 ) that we previously identified to be the main facilitator of lactate uptake in cancer cells .
we found that blockade of lactate influx into ecs led to inhibition of hif-1-dependent angiogenesis .
our demonstration is based on the unprecedented characterization of lactate-induced hif-1 activation in normoxic ecs and the consecutive increase in vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( vegfr2 ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) expression .
furthermore , using a variety of functional assays including endothelial cell migration and tubulogenesis together with in vivo imaging of tumor angiogenesis through intravital microscopy and immunohistochemistry , we documented that mct1 blockers could act as bona fide hif-1 inhibitors leading to anti-angiogenic effects .
together with the previous demonstration of mct1 being a key regulator of lactate exchange between tumor cells , the current study identifies mct1 inhibition as a therapeutic modality combining antimetabolic and anti-angiogenic activities .
identification of molecular target(s) and mechanism(s) of silica-induced pulmonary toxicity is important for the intervention and/or prevention of diseases associated with exposure to silica .
rats were exposed to crystalline silica by inhalation ( 15 mg m(-3) , 6 h per day , 5 days ) and global gene expression profile was determined in the lungs by microarray analysis at 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 and 16 weeks following termination of silica exposure .
the number of significantly differentially expressed genes ( &gt;1.5-fold change and &lt;0.01 false discovery rate p-value ) detected in the lungs during the post-exposure time intervals analyzed exhibited a steady increase in parallel with the progression of silica-induced pulmonary toxicity noticed in the rats .
quantitative real-time pcr analysis of a representative set of 10 genes confirmed the microarray findings .
the number of biological functions , canonical pathways and molecular networks significantly affected by silica exposure , as identified by the bioinformatics analysis of the significantly differentially expressed genes detected during the post-exposure time intervals , also exhibited a steady increase similar to the silica-induced pulmonary toxicity .
genes involved in oxidative stress , inflammation , respiratory diseases , cancer , and tissue remodeling and fibrosis were significantly differentially expressed in the rat lungs ; however , unresolved inflammation was the single most significant biological response to pulmonary exposure to silica .
excessive mucus production , as implicated by significant overexpression of the pendrin coding gene , slc26a4 , was identified as a potential novel mechanism for silica-induced pulmonary toxicity .
collectively , the findings of our study provided insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the progression of crystalline silica-induced pulmonary toxicity in the rat .
published 2012 .
this article is a us government work and is in the public domain in the usa .
background the epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) is a validated therapeutic target in non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) .
however , current single agent receptor targeting does not achieve a maximal therapeutic effect , and some mutations confer resistance to current available agents .
in the current study we have examined , in different nsclc cell lines , the combined effect of rna interference targeting the egfr mrna , and inactivation of egfr signaling using different receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( tkis ) or a monoclonal antibody cetuximab .
methods nsclc cells ( cell lines hcc827 , h292 , h358 , h1650 , and h1975 ) were transfected with egfr sirna and/or treated with the tkis gefitinib , erlotinib , and afatinib , and/or with the monoclonal antibody cetuximab .
the reduction of egfr mrna expression was measured by real-time quantitative rt-pcr .
the down-regulation of egfr protein expression was measured by western blot , and the proliferation , viability , caspase3/7 activity , and apoptotic morphology were monitored by spectrophotometry , fluorimetry , and fluorescence microscopy .
the combined effect of egfr sirna and different drugs was evaluated using a combination index .
results egfr-specific sirna strongly inhibited egfr protein expression almost equally in all cell lines and inhibited cell growth and induced cell apoptosis in all nsclc cell lines studied , albeit with a different magnitude .
the effects on growth obtained with sirna was strikingly different from the effects obtained with tkis .
the effects of sirna probably correlate with the overall oncogenic significance of the receptor , which is only partly inhibited by the tkis .
the cells which showed weak response to tkis , such as the h1975 cell line containing the t790m resistance mutation , were found to be responsive to sirna knockdown of egfr , as were cell lines with downstream tki resistance mutations .
the cell line hcc827 , harboring an exon 19 deletion mutation , was more than 10-fold more sensitive to tki proliferation inhibition and apoptosis induction than any of the other cell lines .
cetuximab alone had no relevant in vitro activity at concentrations obtainable in the clinic .
the addition of egfr sirna to either tkis or cetuximab additively enhanced growth inhibition and induction of apoptosis in all five cell lines , independent of the egfr mutation status ( wild-type or sensitizing mutation or resistant mutation ) .
the strongest biological effect was observed when afatinib was combined with an egfr-specific sirna .
conclusions egfr knockdown by sirna further decreases the cell growth of lung cancer cells that are treated with tkis or cetuximab alone , confirming that single agent drug targeting does not achieve a maximal biological effect .
the sirna inhibits egfr oncogenic activity that bypasses downstream " resistance " mutations such as kras and pten .
the combined treatment of sirna and egfr inhibitory agents is additive .
the combination of a potent , irreversible kinase inhibitor such as afatinib , with egfr-specific sirnas should be further investigated as a new strategy in the treatment of lung cancer and other egfr dependent cancers , including those with downstream resistance mutations .
ebv latent antigen ebna3c is indispensible for in vitro b-cell immortalization resulting in continuously proliferating lymphoblastoid cell lines ( lcls ) .
ebna3c was previously shown to target prb for ubiquitin-proteasome mediated degradation , which facilitates g1 to s transition controlled by the major transcriptional activator e2f1 .
e2f1 also plays a pivotal role in regulating dna damage induced apoptosis through both p53-dependent and -independent pathways .
in this study , we demonstrate that in response to dna damage lcls knocked down for ebna3c undergo a drastic induction of apoptosis , as a possible consequence of both p53- and e2f1-mediated activities .
importantly , ebna3c was previously shown to suppress p53-induced apoptosis .
now , we also show that ebna3c efficiently blocks e2f1-mediated apoptosis , as well as its anti-proliferative effects in a p53-independent manner , in response to dna damage .
the n- and c-terminal domains of ebna3c form a stable prb independent complex with the n-terminal dna-binding region of e2f1 responsible for inducing apoptosis .
mechanistically , we show that ebna3c represses e2f1 transcriptional activity via blocking its dna-binding activity at the responsive promoters of p73 and apaf-1 apoptosis induced genes , and also facilitates e2f1 degradation in an ubiquitin-proteasome dependent fashion .
moreover , in response to dna damage , e2f1 knockdown lcls exhibited a significant reduction in apoptosis with higher cell-viability .
in the presence of normal mitogenic stimuli the growth rate of lcls knockdown for e2f1 was markedly impaired ; indicating that e2f1 plays a dual role in ebv positive cells and that active engagement of the ebna3c-e2f1 complex is crucial for inhibition of dna damage induced e2f1-mediated apoptosis .
this study offers novel insights into our current understanding of ebv biology and enhances the potential for development of effective therapies against ebv associated b-cell lymphomas .
gastrin stimulates the growth of pancreatic cancer cells through the activation of the cholecystokinin-b receptor ( cck-br ) , which has been found to be overexpressed in pancreatic cancer .
in this study , we proposed that the cck-br drives growth of pancreatic cancer ; hence , interruption of cck-br activity could potentially be an ideal target for cancer therapeutics .
the effect of cck-br downregulation in the human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells was examined by utilizing specific cck-br-targeted rna interference reagents .
the cck-br receptor expression was both transiently and stably downregulated by transfection with selective cck-br small-interfering rna or short-hairpin rna , respectively , and the effects on cell growth and apoptosis were assessed .
cck-br downregulation resulted in reduced cancer cell proliferation , decreased dna synthesis , and cell cycle arrest as demonstrated by an inhibition of g(1) to s phase progression .
furthermore , cck-br downregulation increased caspase-3 activity , tunel-positive cells , and decreased x-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein expression , suggesting apoptotic activity .
pancreatic cancer cell mobility was decreased when the cck-br was downregulated , as assessed by a migration assay .
these results show the importance of the cck-br in regulation of growth and apoptosis in pancreatic cancer .
strategies to decrease the cck-br expression and activity may be beneficial for the development of new methods to improve the treatment for patients with pancreatic cancer .
the submandibular gland-derived tumor cell line sca-9 is considered a useful tool to study the signaling pathways involved in proliferation , and their regulation , triggered by different stimuli .
it is proposed that the non neuronal cholinergic system : acethylcholine , the enzymes that synthesize and degrade it , and the nicotinic and muscarinic receptors , play a key role in tumorigenesis .
here , we investigate the role of muscarinic receptors in sca-9 cell proliferation , and the modulation of cholinergic signaling pathways exerted by the nuclear transcription factor b ( nf-b ) .
the activation of cholinergic receptors by carbachol ( 10m ) increased cell proliferation ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
this was prevented by preincubating cells with the muscarinic antagonist atropine but not by mecamylamine , a nicotinic receptor blocker .
phospholipase c ( plc)/nitric oxide synthase ( nos)/arginase pathway is involved in this effect , since carbachol stimulated nitric oxide production , increased nos2 and nos3 expressions , urea production , and arginase ii expression ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
also , phospholipase a ( pla)/cyclooxygenase ( cox ) pathway is up-regulated in carbachol-induced sca-9 cell proliferation , because prostaglandin e liberation ( p&lt;0.001 ) is increased and cox-1 expression is turned up ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
interactions between plc/nos/arginases and pla/cox pathways via its metabolites were detected .
sca-9 cells exhibit a constitutive activation of nf-b , which regulates carbachol-induced nos2 and 3 , arginase ii and cox-1 expressions .
in addition , protein kinase c is involved in the up-regulation of nos2 and arginase ii enzymes induced by carbachol via nf-b .
in conclusion , the activation of cholinergic receptors in sca-9 tumor cells promotes proliferation via muscarinic effector enzymes , and reveals the participation of nf-b at this step of tumorigenesis .
objectives/hypothesis head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( hnscc ) is a complex disease process involving interactions with carcinoma-associated fibroblasts and endothelial cells .
we further investigated these relationships by suppressing stromal cell growth through the inhibition of fibroblast growth factor receptor ( fgfr ) .
study design preclinical investigation .
methods hnscc cell lines ( fadu , osc19 , cal27 , scc1 , scc5 , scc22a ) , fibroblast ( hs27 ) , and endothelial cells ( human umbilical vascular endothelial cell ) were cultured individually or in coculture .
proliferation was assessed following treatment with a range of physiologic concentrations of fgfr inhibitor pd173074 .
mice bearing established hnscc xenografts were treated with pd173074 ( 12 mg/kg ) , and tumor histology was analyzed for stromal composition , proliferation ( ki67 staining ) , and apoptosis ( tunel [ terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dutp nick end labeling ] staining ) .
results in vitro , inhibition of fgfr with pd173074 dramatically reduced proliferation of fibroblasts and endothelial cells compared to untreated controls .
however , hnscc cell proliferation was not affected by inhibition of fgfr .
when cocultured with fibroblasts , hnscc cells proliferation increased by 15% to 80% ( p &lt ; .01 ) .
furthermore , this fibroblast-enhanced tumor cell growth was suppressed by fgfr inhibition .
additionally , treatment of mice bearing hnscc xenografts with pd173074 resulted in significant growth inhibition ( p &lt ; .001 ) .
additionally , those tumors from mice treated with pd173074 had a smaller stromal component , decreased proliferation , and increased apoptosis .
conclusions targeting the fgfr pathway in head and neck cancer acts through the stromal components to decrease hnscc growth in vivo and in vitro .
certain components of apples have been shown to prevent cancer growth and impede cancer progression .
we hypothesized that extracted apple polysaccharides ( aps ) might , therefore , have anticancer effects , through a mechanism involving the induction of apoptosis in cancer cells , partly via the nf-b pathway .
two human colorectal cancer ( crc ) cell lines , ht-29 and sw620 , were exposed to different concentrations of aps ( 0.01 , 0.1 or 1 mg/ml ) .
cell apoptosis was measured by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay by flow cytometry and incorporation of 5'-bromodeoxyuridine ( brdu ) into dna to identify the proliferating cell fraction , using fluorescence microscopy in vitro .
the protein levels of nf-b/p65 , i-b , pi-b , bax , bcl-xl and bcl-2 were evaluated by western blotting .
the target sites of aps on crc cells were assessed by flow cytometry .
at concentrations of 0.1 and 1 mg/ml , aps showed apoptosis-inducing effects , increased expressions of bax , nuclear p65 and cytoplasmic pi-b , and decreased expressions of bcl-2 , bcl-xl and cytoplasmic i-b .
aps induced apoptosis by slightly activating the nf-b pathway ; the ap target site could be the toll-like receptor 4 on the cell membrane .
these results demonstrate the potential of aps as agents for clinical prevention and treatment of crc .
objective expression of n-myc downstream-regulated gene 1 ( ndrg1)/cap43 is a prognostic indicator of human malignancies according to the tumor type in which it occurs .
we investigated how ndrg1/cap43 could affect tumor growth and angiogenesis in non-small-cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) in vivo using an animal experimental model , and also how it could affect tumor angiogenesis and prognosis in nsclc patients .
methods and results knockdown of ndrg1/cap43 in lung cancer cells using a specific small interfering rna resulted in growth rates in culture that were similar to those of counterpart control cells , but decreased tumor growth rates in vivo markedly .
stable ndrg1/cap43 knockdown did not induce consistent changes in the expression of epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) family proteins and c-met in two human lung cancer cell lines in vitro .
however , cell lines with ndrg1/cap43 knockdown showed markedly decreased production of the potent angiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor-a and interleukin-8 .
cells with knockdown of ndrg1/cap43 showed marked reduction of tumor-induced angiogenesis .
using immunohistochemistry , we examined 182 surgically resected specimens of nsclc for expression of ndrg1/cap43 and tumor angiogenesis .
high microvessel density in the tumor was significantly associated with nuclear positivity for ndrg1/cap43 in both adenocarcinoma ( p = 0.003 ) and squamous cell carcinoma ( p=0.041 ) .
for both adenocarcinoma ( p = 0.031 ) and squamous cell carcinoma ( p=0.034 ) , the survival curve of patients negative for nuclear ndrg1/cap43 expression differed significantly from that of patients who were positive .
conclusion therefore , the expression of ndrg1/cap43 may be predictive of tumor angiogenesis and poor prognosis in nsclc .
although the expression of extracellular matrix protein-1 ( ecm1 ) has been documented in several tumor models , the function of ecm1 has remained unclear .
in this study , expression of ecm1 was detected by real time pcr and immunohistochemistry .
the role and mechanism of ecm1 overexpression in cholangiocarcinoma ( cca ) cells were assessed by wound-healing , matrigel invasion assay and western blotting .
expression of ecm1 was significantly elevated in cca tissues than that in adjacent noncancerous , cholangitis and normal bile duct tissues .
its overexpression was associated with poor differentiation , lymph node metastasis , poor prognosis , and the level of ca199 , mmp-9 , estrogen receptor .
knockdown of ecm1 suppressed migration and invasion of cca cells .
using pi3k or ikk inhibitor reduced the level of phospho-akt or phospho-ib as well as ecm1 .
taken together , overexpression of ecm1 may contribute to cca initiation and progression through promoting migration and invasion of cca cells , its overexpression was associated with akt/nf-b signaling axis .
curcumin , a well-known chemopreventive agent from turmeric , inhibits the expression of several oncogenes and cell proliferation genes in tumor cells .
this study aims to understand the precise molecular mechanism by which curcumin exerts its effects on retinoblastoma cells , by performing whole genome microarray analysis to determine the gene expression profiles altered by curcumin treatment .
curcumin suppressed cell viability and altered the cell cycle of retinoblastoma cells .
we identified 903 downregulated genes and 1,319 upregulated genes when compared with the control cells after treatment with 20 m curcumin concentration for 48 h .
these genes were grouped into respective functional categories according to their biological function .
we found that curcumin regulated the expression of genes that are involved in the regulation of apoptosis , tumor suppressor , cell-cycle arrest , transcription factor , and angiogenesis .
quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction ( qrt-pcr ) analysis was used to validate the results of genome array , and the results were consistent with the obtained data .
in conclusion , treatment of curcumin affects the expression of genes involved in various cellular functions and plays an important role in tumor metastasis and apoptosis .
thus , curcumin might be an effective chemopreventive agent for retinoblastoma cancer .
background adenosine receptors ( a1 , a2a , a2b , a3 ) play an important role in the regulation of growth , proliferation and death of cancer and normal cells .
we recently showed the expression profile of a2a and a2b receptors in normal and tumor breast tissues .
in the present study , we used semiquantitative rt-pcr to measure the a1 and a3 gene expression levels in normal and tumor breast tissues .
methods breast tumors ( n = 18 ) and non-neoplastic mammary tissues ( n = 10 ) were collected and histologically confirmed to be neoplastic or non-neoplastic , respectively .
total rna was extracted and reverse transcribed into cdna , and pcr was performed under optimized condition for each receptor subtype .
amplification of beta-actin mrna served as control for rt-pcr .
the pcr products were separated on 1.7% agarose gels .
the intensity of the bands was quantitated with imagej software after normalization against beta-actin expression .
results all breast tumor and normal tissue specimens expressed a1 and a3 adenosine receptor transcripts .
however , we observed that the expression level of the a3 receptor in tumor tissues was 1.27-fold that of normal tissues , whereas there was no significant difference between the expression levels of a1 in normal and tumor tissues .
conclusions interestingly , the results of the present study indicate that breast tumors exhibit a higher level of a3 transcripts ( than normal tissues ) and support the possible key role of a3 adenosine receptor in tumor development .
however , further studies based on real-time quantitative rt-pcr are needed to identify the exact gene expression levels .
manipulating acetylation status of key gene targets is likely to be crucial for effective cancer therapy .
in this study , we utilized green tea catechins , epicatechin ( ec ) , epigallocatechin ( egc ) and epigallocatechin-3-gallate ( egcg ) to examine the regulation of androgen receptor acetylation in androgen-dependent prostate cancer cells by histone acetyl-transferase ( hat ) activity .
ec , egc and egcg induced prostate cancer cell death , suppressed agonist-dependent androgen receptor ( ar ) activation and ar-regulated gene transcription .
these results demonstrated a similar tendency to hat inhibitory activities ; egcg&gt;egc&gt;ec .
the strongest hat inhibitor among them , egcg ( 50 m ) , downregulated ar acetylation and finally , ar protein translocation to nucleus from the cytoplasmic compartment was effectively inhibited in the presence of the agonist .
these results suggest another mechanism to develop effective therapeutics based on green tea catechins .
furan , a potent rodent liver carcinogen , is found in many cooked food items and thus represents a human cancer risk .
mechanisms for furan carcinogenicity were investigated in male f344 rats using the in vivo comet and micronucleus assays , combined with analysis of histopathological and gene expression changes .
in addition , formamidopyrimidine dna glycosylase ( fpg ) and endonuclease iii ( endoiii)-sensitive dna damage was monitored as a measure of oxidative dna damage .
rats were treated by gavage on four consecutive days with 2 , 4 , and 8mg/kg bw furan , doses that were tumorigenic in 2-year cancer bioassays , and with two higher doses , 12 and 16mg/kg .
rats were killed 3h after the last dose , a time established as producing maximum levels of dna damage in livers of furan-treated rats .
liver comet assays indicated that both dna strand breaks and oxidized purines and pyrimidines increased in a near-linear dose-responsive fashion , with statistically significant increases detected at cancer bioassay doses .
no dna damage was detected in bone marrow , a non-target tissue for cancer , and peripheral blood micronucleus assays were negative .
histopathological evaluation of liver from furan-exposed animals produced evidence of inflammation , single-cell necrosis , apoptosis , and cell proliferation .
in addition , genes related to apoptosis , cell-cycle checkpoints , and dna-repair were expressed at a slightly lower level in the furan-treated livers .
although a mixed mode of action involving direct dna binding cannot be ruled out , the data suggest that furan induces cancer in rat livers mainly through a secondary genotoxic mechanism involving oxidative stress , accompanied by inflammation , cell proliferation , and toxicity .
many cancer cells metabolize glucose preferentially via pyruvate to lactate instead to co(2) and h(2)o ( oxidative phosphorylation ) even in the presence of oxygen ( warburg effect ) .
dichloroacetate ( dca ) is a drug which is able to shift pyruvate metabolism from lactate to acetyl-coa ( tricarboxylic acid cycle ) by indirect activation of pyruvate dehydrogenase ( pdh ) .
this can subsequently lead to an increased flow of oxygen in the respiratory chain , associated with enhanced generation of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) which may cause apoptosis .
in order to investigate if dca may be suitable for neuroblastoma therapy , it was investigated on three human neuroblastoma cell lines whether dca can reduce lactate production and enhance oxygen consumption .
the data show , that dca ( in the low millimolar range ) is able to reduce lactate production , but there was only a slight shift to increased oxygen consumption and almost no effect on cell vitality , proliferation and apoptosis of the three cell lines investigated .
therefore , dca at low millimolar concentrations seems to be only of minor efficacy for neuroblastoma treatment .
background brain-metastatic breast cancer ( bmbc ) is increasing and poses a severe clinical problem because of the lack of effective treatments and because the underlying molecular mechanisms are largely unknown .
recent work has demonstrated that deregulation of epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) may correlate with bmbc progression .
however , the exact contribution that egfr makes to bmbc remains unclear .
methods the role of egfr in bmbc was explored by serial analyses in a brain-trophic clone of human mda-mb-231 breast carcinoma cells ( 231-br cells ) .
egfr expression was inhibited by stable short-hairpin rna transfection or by the kinase inhibitor erlotinib , and it was activated by heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor ( hb-egf ) .
cell growth and invasion activities also were analyzed in vitro and in vivo .
results egfr inhibition or activation strongly affected 231-br cell migration/invasion activities as assessed by an adhesion assay , a wound-healing assay , a boyden chamber invasion assay , and cytoskeleton staining .
also , egfr inhibition significantly decreased brain metastases of 231-br cells in vivo .
surprisingly , changes to egfr expression affected cell proliferation activities less significantly as determined by a 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide ( mtt ) assay , an anchorage-independent growth assay , and cell cycle analysis .
immunoblot analysis suggested that egfr drives cells ' invasiveness capability mainly through phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase b and phospholipase c  downstream pathways .
in addition , egfr was involved less in proliferation because of the insensitivity of the downstream mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway .
conclusions the current results indicated that egfr plays more important roles in cell migration and invasion to the brain than in cell proliferation progression on 231-br cells , providing new evidence of the potential value of egfr inhibition in treating bmbc .
neurofibromatosis type 2 patients develop schwannomas , meningiomas and ependymomas resulting from mutations in the tumor suppressor gene , nf2 , encoding a membrane-cytoskeleton adapter protein called merlin .
merlin regulates contact inhibition of growth and controls the availability of growth factor receptors at the cell surface .
we tested if microtubule-based vesicular trafficking might be a mechanism by which merlin acts .
we found that schwannoma cells , containing merlin mutations and constitutive activation of the rho/rac family of gtpases , had decreased intracellular vesicular trafficking relative to normal human schwann cells .
in nf2-/- mouse schwann ( sc4 ) cells , re-expression of merlin as well as inhibition of rac or its effector kinases , mlk and p38(sapk) , each increased the velocity of rab6 positive exocytic vesicles .
conversely , an activated rac mutant decreased rab6 vesicle velocity .
vesicle motility assays in isolated squid axoplasm further demonstrated that both mutant merlin and active rac specifically reduce anterograde microtubule-based transport of vesicles dependent upon the activity of p38(sapk) kinase .
taken together , our data suggest loss of merlin results in the rac-dependent decrease of anterograde trafficking of exocytic vesicles , representing a possible mechanism controlling the concentration of growth factor receptors at the cell surface .
bladder cancer is one of the most common tumors of the genitourinary tract ; however , the molecular events underlying growth and invasion of the tumor remain unclear .
here , role of the cxcr7 receptor in bladder cancer was further explored .
cxcr7 protein expression was examined using high-density tissue microarrays .
expression of cxcr7 showed strong epithelial staining that correlated with bladder cancer progression .
in vitro and in vivo studies in bladder cancer cell lines suggested that alterations in cxcr7 expression were associated with the activities of proliferation , apoptosis , migration , invasion , angiogenesis and tumor growth .
moreover , cxcr7 expression was able to regulate expression of the proangiogenic factors il-8 or vegf , which may involve in the regulation of tumor angiogenesis .
finally , we found that signaling by the cxcr7 in bladder cancer cells activates akt , erk and stat3 pathways .
the akt and erk pathways may reciprocally regulate , which are responsible for in vitro and in vivo epithelial to mesenchymal transition ( emt ) process of bladder cancer .
simultaneously targeting the two pathways by using u0126 and ly294002 inhibitors or using ccx733 , a selective cxcr7 antagonist drastically reduced cxcr7-induced emt process .
taken together , our data show for the first time that cxcr7 plays a role in the development of bladder cancer .
targeting cxcr7 or its downstream-activated akt and erk pathways may prove beneficial to prevent metastasis and provide a more effective therapeutic strategy for bladder cancer .
background recent data indicate the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( stat3 ) pathway is required for vegf production and angiogenesis in various types of cancers .
stat3 inhibitors have been shown to reduce tumor microvessel density in tumors but a direct anti-angiogenic activity has not been described .
methodology/principal findings we investigated the direct action of a small molecule inhibitor of stat3 ( lll12 ) in human umbilical cord vascular endothelial cells ( huvecs ) in vitro , in a matrigel model for angiogenesis in vivo , and its antitumor activity in a xenograft model of osteosarcoma .
lll12 ( 100 nm ) significantly inhibited vegf-stimulated stat3 phosphorylation in huvecs , reduced their proliferation/migration and inhibited vegf-induced tube formation .
morphologic analysis of lll12 treated huvecs demonstrated marked changes in actin/tubulin distribution and bundling .
in scid mice , lll12 reduced microvessel invasion into vegf-infused matrigel plugs by 90% at a dose of 5 mg/kg daily .
following a period of tumor progression ( 2 weeks ) , lll12 completely suppressed further growth of established os-1 osteosarcoma xenografts .
pharmacodynamic studies showed robust phosphorylated stat3 in control tumors , whereas phospho-stat3 was not detected in lll12-treated os-1 tumors .
treated tumors demonstrated decreased proliferation ( ki67 staining ) , and decreased microvessel density ( cd34 staining ) , but no significant increase in apoptosis ( tunel staining ) , relative to controls .
assay of angiogenic factors , using an antibody array , showed vegf , mmp-9 , angiopoietin1/2 , tissue factor and fgf-1 expression were dramatically reduced in lll12-treated tumors compared to control tumors .
conclusions these findings provide the first evidence that lll12 effectively inhibits tumor angiogenesis both in vitro and in vivo .
background tissue factor ( tf ) , an initiator of blood coagulation , participates in cancer progression and metastasis .
we recently found that inhibition of mapk/erk upregulated both full length tf ( fltf ) and soluble isoform tf ( astf ) gene expression and cell-associated tf activity in breast cancer mda-mb-231 cells .
we explored the possible mechanisms , especially the possible interaction with egfr and pi3k/akt pathways .
methods a plasmid containing tf promoter -2174 plus luciferase reporter gene was introduced into mda-mb-231 cells to evaluate tf promoter activity .
in order to study the interaction of these pathways , erk inhibitor ( pd98059 ) , pi3k inhibitors ( ly294002 , wortmannin ) , akt inhibitor ( a6730 ) , and egfr inhibitor ( erlotinib ) as well as the corresponding sirnas were used to treat mda-mb-231 cells , and ovarian cancer ovcar-3 and skov-3 cells .
quantitative pcr and western blot were used to determine tf expression .
one stage clotting assays were used to measure pro-coagulation activity of the mda-mb-231 cells .
results we show that pi3k inhibitors ly294002 , wortmannin and a6730 significantly inhibited tf promoter activity , and reduced tf mrna and protein levels due to the inhibition of akt phosphorylation .
in contrast , erk inhibitor pd98059 and erk sirna enhanced tf promoter activity by 2.5 fold and induced an increase in tf mrna and protein levels in a dose dependent manner in these cells .
the pi3k/akt pathway was shown to be involved in pd98059-induced tf expression because the induction was inhibited by pi3k/akt inhibitors .
most interestingly , the egfr inhibitor erlotinib and egfr sirna also significantly suppressed pd98059- or erk sirna-induced tf promoter activity and tf protein expression .
similar results were found with ovarian cancer cells skov-3 and ovcar-3 .
furthermore , in mda-mb-231 , mrna levels of astf were regulated in a similar way to that of tf in response to the cell treatment .
conclusions this study showed a regulatory mechanism in which mapk/erk signals inhibit egfr/pi3k/akt-mediated tf expression in breast cancer mda-mb-231 cells .
the same regulation was observed in ovarian cancer ovcar-3 and skov-3 cells .
interestingly , we observed that both fltf and astf could be regulated in a parallel manner in mda-mb-231 .
as the pi3k/akt pathway and egfr regulate tf expression in cancer cells , targeting these signaling components is expected to potentially inhibit tf expression-associated tumor progression .
background the isothiocyanate sulforaphane ( sfn ) possesses interesting anticancer activities .
however , recent studies reported that sfn promotes the formation of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) as well as dna breakage .
methodology/principal findings we investigated whether sfn is able to damage rna , whose loss of integrity was demonstrated in different chronic diseases .
considering the ability of sfn to protect from genotoxicity , we also examined whether sfn is able to protect from rna damage induced by different chemicals ( doxorubicin , spermine , s-nitroso-n-acetylpenicillamine , h(2)o(2) ) .
we observed that sfn was devoid of either rna damaging and rna protective activity in human leukemic cells .
it was able to potentiate the rna damage by doxorubicin and spermine .
in the first case , the effect was attributable to its ability of modulating the bioreductive activation of doxorubicin .
for spermine , the effects were mainly due to its modulation of ros levels produced by spermine metabolism .
as to the cytotoxic relevance of the rna damage , we found that the treatment of cells with a mixture of spermine or doxorubicin plus sfn increased their proapoptotic potential .
thus it is conceivable that the presence of rna damage might concur to the overall toxic response induced by a chemical agent in targeted cells .
conclusions/significance since rna is emerging as a potential target for anticancer drugs , its ability to enhance spermine- and doxorubicin-induced rna damage and cytotoxicity could represent an additional mechanism for the potentiating effects of sfn associated with anticancer drugs .
even when patients with nonsmall cell lung cancer undergo surgical resection at an early stage , recurrent disease often impairs the clinical outcome .
there are numerous causes potentially responsible for a relapse of the disease , one of them being extensive angiogenesis .
the balance of at least two systems , vegf vegfr and ang tie , regulates vessel formation .
the aim of this study was to determine the impact of surgery on the plasma levels of the main angiogenic factors during the first month after surgery in nonsmall cell lung cancer patients .
the study group consisted of 37 patients with stage i nonsmall cell lung cancer .
plasma concentrations of ang1 , ang2 , stie2 , vegf , and svegf r1 were evaluated by elisa three times : before surgical resection and on postoperative days 7 and 30 .
the median of ang2 and vegf concentrations increased on postoperative day 7 and decreased on day 30 .
on the other hand , the concentration of stie2 decreased on the 7th day after resection and did not change statistically later on .
the concentrations of ang1 and svegf r1 did not change after the surgery .
lung cancer resection results in proangiogenic plasma protein changes that may stimulate tumor recurrences and metastases after early resection .
background peritoneal transport status is important not only for prescription , but also as a prognostic index .
flt-1 and flk-1 , the major vascular endothelial growth factor receptors involved in angiogenesis and hyperpermeability , may play a potent role in determining peritoneal transport characteristics .
however , the relationship between them has not been studied to date .
we hypothesized that flt-1 and flk-1 expression in the peritoneal vasculature of uremic patients could be closely related to baseline peritoneal transport status .
methods thirty-six new patients without a previous history of peritonitis were enrolled .
clinical parameters such as age , sex , height , weight , causes of renal failure , and residual renal function were assessed .
parietal peritoneal biopsies were obtained during implantation of peritoneal dialytic catheters .
flt-1 and flk-1 were semi-quantitatively evaluated by immunohistochemical staining .
peritoneal microvascular density ( mvd ) was counted .
within 6 weeks after commencing peritoneal dialysis , a standard peritoneal equilibration test was performed , and the dialysate-to-plasma concentration ratio for creatinine at 4 h ( d4/p cr ) was determined .
the patients were divided into two groups based on the d4/p cr : more than 0.65 ( group h , n = 22 ) and less than or equal to 0.65 ( group l , n = 14 ) .
the 24-h peritoneal protein excretion ( ppe ) was assayed .
flt-1 and flk-1 were correlated with peritoneal mvd , d4/p cr , and ppe .
results flt-1 and flk-1 were detected in the peritoneal vasculature of uremic patients .
flt-1 expression was similar between the two groups , but flk-1 expression in group h was significantly higher than that in group l ( p = 0.001 ) .
flt-1 expression did not show significant correlations with peritoneal mvd , d4/p cr , and ppe .
however , flk-1 expression showed significant correlations with the above three parameters ( p &lt ; 0.001 for all ) .
conclusions for the first time , the expressions of flt-1 and flk-1 in peritoneal vasculature of uremic patients were detected .
flk-1 expression in peritoneal vasculature of uremic patients is closely correlated with the number of peritoneal microvessels , peritoneal small solute transport rate , and ppe .
our findings strongly suggest that flk-1 may be a crucial determinant of baseline peritoneal transport characteristics .
further interventional studies are needed .
cyclin e2 , but not cyclin e1 , is included in several gene signatures that predict disease progression in either tamoxifen-resistant or metastatic breast cancer .
we therefore examined the role of cyclin e2 in antiestrogen resistance in vitro and its potential for therapeutic targeting through cyclin-dependent kinase ( cdk ) inhibition .
high expression of ccne2 , but not ccne1 , was characteristic of the luminal b and her2 subtypes of breast cancer and was strongly predictive of shorter distant metastasis-free survival following endocrine therapy .
after antiestrogen treatment of mcf-7 breast cancer cells , cyclin e2 mrna and protein were downregulated and cyclin e2-cdk2 activity decreased .
however , this regulation was lost in tamoxifen-resistant ( mcf-7 tamr ) cells , which overexpressed cyclin e2 .
expression of either cyclin e1 or e2 in t-47d breast cancer cells conferred acute antiestrogen resistance , suggesting that cyclin e overexpression contributes to the antiestrogen resistance of tamoxifen-resistant cells .
ectopic expression of cyclin e1 or e2 also reduced sensitivity to cdk4 , but not cdk2 , inhibition .
proliferation of tamoxifen-resistant cells was inhibited by rnai-mediated knockdown of cyclin e1 , cyclin e2 , or cdk2 .
furthermore , cdk2 inhibition of e-cyclin overexpressing cells and tamoxifen-resistant cells restored sensitivity to tamoxifen or cdk4 inhibition .
cyclin e2 overexpression is therefore a potential mechanism of resistance to both endocrine therapy and cdk4 inhibition .
cdk2 inhibitors hold promise as a component of combination therapies in endocrine-resistant disease as they effectively inhibit cyclin e1 and e2 overexpressing cells and enhance the efficacy of other therapeutics .
we investigated the effects of valproic acid ( vpa ) , a histone deacetylase inhibitor , in combination with hydralazine , a dna methylation inhibitor , on the expression of cell-surface fas and mhc-class i-related chain molecules a and b ( mica and b ) , the ligands of nkg2d which is an activating receptor of nk cells , and on production of their soluble forms in hos , u-2 os and saos-2 human osteosarcoma cell lines .
we also examined the susceptibility of these cells to fas- and nk cell-mediated cell death .
vpa did not increase the expression of fas on the surface of osteosarcoma cells , while hydralazine did , and the combination of vpa with hydralazine increased the expression of cell-surface fas .
in contrast , the combination of vpa with hydralazine did not increase the production of soluble fas by osteosarcoma cells .
both vpa and hydralazine increased the expression of cell-surface mica and b in osteosarcoma cells , and their combination induced a greater increase in their expression .
vpa inhibited the production of both soluble mica and micb by osteosarcoma cells while hydralazine produced no effect .
both vpa and hydralazine enhanced the susceptibility of osteosarcoma cells to fas- and nk cell-mediated cell death and the combination of vpa with hydralazine further enhanced the effects .
the present results suggest that combined administration of vpa and hydrazine is valuable for enhancing the therapeutic effects of immunotherapy for osteosarcomas .
background special at-rich binding protein-1 ( satb1 ) reprograms chromatin organization and transcription profiles to promote tumour growth and metastasis .
aims this study aimed to confirm the effects of satb1 on the growth and metastasis of liver cancer and its specific regulation mechanism .
methods satb1 expression was evaluated in human hepatoma tissue , adjacent noncancerous tissue and seven kinds of liver cancer cell lines .
cell cycle , cell proliferation , apoptosis and epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) was investigated after enhanced or silenced expression of satb1 .
the regulatory action of satb1 on the expression of genes that are known to regulate cell cycle progression , apoptosis and emt and the specific apoptotic pathway on which it acts were further analysed .
nude mice that received subcutaneous implantation were used to study the effects of satb1 on tumour growth in vivo .
results our data show that the high expression of satb1 was observed in the human hepatocellular carcinoma tissue ( 26/45 ) and liver cancer cell lines with high metastatic potential .
satb1 upregulated cdk4 and downregulated p16 ( ink ) ( 4a ) to promote cell cycle progression and cell proliferation and prevented apoptosis by inhibiting the fadd-caspase-8-caspase-3 death receptor-mediated apoptosis pathway .
satb1 also induced emt concomitant with increased expression of snail1 , slug , twist and vimentin and decreased expression of e-cadherin , tight junction protein zo-1 and desmoplakin .
satb1 promoted the growth of tumour in vivo .
conclusion these data suggest that the satb1 gene may play an important role in the development and progression of liver cancer by regulation of genes related to cell cycle progression , apoptosis and emt .
elevated aerobic glycolysis in cancer cells ( the warburg effect ) may be attributed to respiration injury or mitochondrial dysfunction , but the underlying mechanisms and therapeutic significance remain elusive .
here we report that induction of mitochondrial respiratory defect by tetracycline-controlled expression of a dominant negative form of dna polymerase  causes a metabolic shift from oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis and increases ros generation .
we show that upregulation of nox is critical to support the elevated glycolysis by providing additional nad+ .
the upregulation of nox is also consistently observed in cancer cells with compromised mitochondria due to the activation of oncogenic ras or loss of p53 , and in primary pancreatic cancer tissues .
suppression of nox by chemical inhibition or genetic knockdown of gene expression selectively impacts cancer cells with mitochondrial dysfunction , leading to a decrease in cellular glycolysis , a loss of cell viability , and inhibition of cancer growth in vivo .
our study reveals a previously unrecognized function of nox in cancer metabolism and suggests that nox is a potential novel target for cancer treatment .
the aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( ahr ) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that mediates the effects of the environmental contaminant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin ( tcdd ) .
recently , ahr has emerged as a potential therapeutic target for breast cancer by virtue of its ability to modulate estrogen receptor- ( er ) signalling and/or its ability to block cell proliferation .
our previous studies identified cyclin g2 ( ccng2 ) , an inhibitor of cell-cycle progression , as an ahr target gene ; however , the mechanism of this regulation is unknown .
chromatin immunoprecipitation assays in t-47d human breast cancer cells revealed a tcdd-dependent recruitment of ahr , nuclear co-activator 3 ( ncoa3 ) and the transcription factor forkhead box a1 ( foxa1 ) , a key regulator of breast cancer cell signaling , to ccng2 resulting in increases in ccng2 mrna and protein levels .
mutation of the ahr response element ( ahre ) and forkhead-binding sites abolished tcdd-induced ccng2-regulated reporter gene activity .
rna interference-mediated knockdown of foxa1 prevented the tcdd-dependent recruitment of ahr and ncoa3 to ccng2 and reduced ccng2 mrna levels .
interestingly , knockdown of foxa1 also caused a marked decrease in er , but not ahr protein levels .
however , rna interference-mediated knockdown of er , a negative regulator of ccng2 , had no effect on tcdd-dependent ahr or ncoa3 recruitment to or expression of ccng2 .
these findings show that foxa1 , but not er , is essential for ahr-dependent regulation of ccng2 , assigning a role for foxa1 in ahr action .
purpose precise monitoring of active angiogenesis in neovascular eye diseases such as age-related macular degeneration ( amd ) enables sensitive use of antiangiogenic drugs and reduces adverse side effects .
so far , no in vivo imaging methods are available to specifically label active angiogenesis .
here , we report such a technique using fluorophore-labeled cationic liposomes ( cl ) detected with a standard clinical in vivo scanning laser ophthalmoscope ( slo ) .
methods c57bl/6 mice underwent laser coagulations at day 0 ( d0 ) to induce choroidal neovascularization ( cnv ) .
liposomes labeled with oregon green , rhodamine ( rh ) , or indocyanine green ( icg ) were injected into the tail vein at various time points after laser coagulation , and their fluorescence was observed in vivo 60 min later using an slo , or afterwards in choroidal flatmounts or cryosections .
results slo detected accumulated fluorescence only in active cnv lesions with insignificant background noise .
the best signal was obtained with cl-icg .
choroidal flatmounts and cryosections of the eye confirmed the location of retained cl in cnv lesions .
neutral liposomes , in contrast , showed no accumulation .
conclusions these results establish fluorophore-labeled cl as high affinity markers to selectively stain active cnv .
this novel , non-invasive slo imaging technique could improve risk assessment and indication for current intraocular antiangiogenic drugs in neovascular eye diseases , as well as monitor therapeutic outcomes .
labeling of angiogenic vessels using cl can be of interest not only for functional imaging in ophthalmology but also for other conditions where localization of active angiogenesis is desirable .
the salvador/warts/hippo ( hippo ) signaling pathway defines a novel signaling cascade regulating cell contact inhibition , organ size control , cell growth , proliferation , apoptosis and cancer development in mammals .
the upstream regulation of this pathway has been less well defined than the core kinase cassette .
kibra has been shown to function as an upstream member of the hippo pathway by influencing the phosphorylation of lats and yap , but functional consequences of these biochemical changes have not been previously addressed .
we show that in mcf10a cells , loss of kibra expression displays epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) features , which are concomitant with decreased lats and yap phosphorylation , but not mst1/2 .
in addition , ectopic kibra expression antagonizes yap via the serine 127 phosphorylation site and we show that kibra , willin and merlin differentially regulate genes controlled by yap .
finally , reduced kibra expression in primary breast cancer specimens correlates with the recently described claudin-low subtype , an aggressive sub-group with emt features and a poor prognosis .
breast cancer consists in a chronic inflammatory disease with multiple biological and clinical behaviors .
based on high throughput technologies data , this disease is currently classified according to the molecular expression of estrogen ( er ) , progesterone ( pr ) and human epidermal growth factor ( her-2 ) receptors .
in this study , we defined the inflammatory profile of the main molecular subtypes of breast cancer patients : luminal ( er and pr positive , her-2 negative ) , her-2 enriched ( her-2 positive ) and triple negative ( er , pr and her-2 negative ) .
cytokines panel was assessed by measurement of tnf- , tgf- , il-1 , il-10 and il-12 plasmatic levels .
oxidative profile was assessed by determination of lipid peroxidation , total antioxidant capacity of plasma , malondialdehyde levels , carbonyl content and nitric oxide ( no ) .
clinical data were correlated with inflammatory findings .
our findings demonstrated that patients bearing the luminal subtype displayed high tnf- , tgf- and enhanced oxidative stress levels associated with reduced il-12 .
her-2-enriched group exhibited higher levels of tnf- , il-12 and tgf- associated with enhanced oxidative stress .
triple-negative subtype exhibited the most aggressive profile of disease behavior , with reduction in both tnf- and tgf- , with high levels of lipid peroxidation and no .
the clinical importance of our findings lies in the fact that the inflammatory status varies in distinct ways due to molecular subtype of breast cancer , opening potential therapeutic targets to future therapies .
radiotherapy is commonly used for cancer treatment .
however , it often results in side effects due to radiation damage in normal tissue , such as bone marrow ( bm ) failure .
adult hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells ( hspc ) reside in bm next to the endosteal bone surface , which is lined primarily by hematopoietic niche osteoblastic cells .
osteoblasts are relatively more radiation-resistant than hspcs , but the mechanisms are not well understood .
in the present study , we demonstrated that the stress response gene redd1 ( regulated in development and dna damage responses 1 ) was highly expressed in human osteoblast cell line ( hfob ) cells after  irradiation .
knockdown of redd1 with sirna resulted in a decrease in hfob cell numbers , whereas transfection of pcmv6-ac-gfp-redd1 plasmid dna into hfob cells inhibited mammalian target of rapamycin ( mtor ) and p21 expression and protected these cells from radiation-induced premature senescence ( ps ) .
the ps in irradiated hfob cells were characterized by significant inhibition of clonogenicity , activation of senescence biomarker sa--gal , and the senescence-associated cytokine secretory phenotype ( sasp ) after 4 or 8 gy irradiation .
immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated that the stress response proteins p53 and nuclear factor  b ( nfkb ) interacted with redd1 in hfob cells .
knockdown of nfkb or p53 gene dramatically suppressed redd1 protein expression in these cells , indicating that redd1 was regulated by both factors .
our data demonstrated that redd1 is a protective factor in radiation-induced osteoblast cell premature senescence .
objective angiogenesis represents a key element in the pathogenesis of malignancy .
there are no robust data on prognostic factors for overall survival ( os ) in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer treated with vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf)-targeted therapy .
the present study was conducted to establish a prognostic model for patients using an oxaliplatin-based or irinotecan-based chemotherapy plus bevacizumab in metastatic colorectal cancer .
methods baseline characteristics and outcomes on 170 patients treated with folfiri or xelox plus anti-vegf therapy-naive metastatic colorectal cancer were collected from three turkey cancer centers .
cox proportional hazards regression was used to identify independent prognostic factors for os .
results the median os for the whole cohort was 19 months ( 95% ci , 14.3 to 23.6 months ) .
three of the seven adverse prognostic factors according to the anatolian society of medical oncology ( asmo ) were independent predictors of short survival : serum lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) greater than the upper limit of normal ( uln ; p&lt;0.001 ) ; neutrophils greater than the uln ( p&lt;0.0014 ) ; and progression free survival ( pfs ) less than 6 months ( p =0.001 ) .
conclusion serum ldh and neutrophil levels were the main prognostic factors in predicting survival , followed by pfs .
this model validates incorporation of components of the asmo model into patient care and clinical trials that use vegf-targeting agents .
cancer cells have elevated aerobic glycolysis that is termed the warburg effect .
but several tumor cells , including leukemic cells , also increase glutamine metabolism , which is initiated by glutaminase ( gls ) .
the microrna ( mirna ) mir-23 targets gls mrna and inhibits expression of gls protein .
here we show that in human leukemic jurkat cells the nf-b p65 subunit binds to mir-23a promoter and inhibits mir-23a expression .
histone deacetylase ( hdac ) inhibitors release p65-induced inhibition .
jurkat cells growing in glutamine decrease proliferation due to cell accumulation in g0/g1 phase .
nevertheless , cells get used to this new source of energy by increasing gls expression , which correlates with an increase in p65 expression and its translocation to the nucleus , leading to a higher basal nf-b activity .
jurkat cells overexpressing p65 show increase basal gls expression and proliferate faster than control cells in glutamine medium .
overexpressing mir-23a in leukemic cells impaired glutamine use and induces mitochondrial dysfunction leading to cell death .
therefore , p65 activation decreases mir-23a expression , which facilitates glutamine consumption allowing leukemic cells to use this alternative source of carbon and favoring their adaptation to the metabolic environment .
most ovarian cancers are estrogen-positive and hormonal treatments using anti-estrogens or aromatase inhibitors are under investigation for treating the tumors that are resistant to conventional therapies .
in this study , the long-term effects of two anti-estrogens , namely 4-hydroxytamoxifen and fulvestrant ( or ici182,780 ) , were investigated in er-positive bg1 epithelial ovarian cancer cells .
to this aim , cells were grown in the presence of anti-estrogen concentrations that were sufficient to saturate the estrogen receptors , but were neither cytotoxic nor cytostatic as indicated by the absence of inhibition of cell proliferation .
in these conditions and despite the lack of cytostatic effect of the drugs , long-term treatment ( 3 months ) with the pure anti-estrogen fulvestrant induced a specific , reproducible and irreversible inhibition of er expression .
this inhibition was accompanied by loss of estrogen-induced cell proliferation and gene expression as indicated by the analysis of several estrogen-responsive genes .
er down-regulation was not linked to deregulated expression of transcription factors which drive er transcription and did not involve dna methylation or histone deacetylation .
altogether , these results demonstrate that non-cytotoxic concentrations of pure anti-estrogens affect estrogen signaling and might be relevant for the treatment for ovarian cancers .
semiconductor nanoparticles ( nps ) became important and wide-used tool for cell imaging because of their unique remarkable properties .
nevertheless , all previous investigations in this area were done on proliferating cells .
for the first time , this work demonstrates strong influence of cell active proliferation/contact inhibition of proliferation on uptake of nps .
in addition , we show that cell division plays key-role in penetration of silicon carbide based nps ( sic nps ) inside the cell nucleus .
this may very likely concern other types of nps able to reach the cell nuclei .
in particular , observed effect of cell division gives perspectives for future selective cancer treatment with nps .
we previously reported that hepatic stellate cells ( hscs ) activated by angiotensin ii ( angii ) facilitate stromal fibrosis and tumor progression in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ( icc ) .
angii has been known as a growth factor which can promote epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) in renal epithelial cells , alveolar epithelial cells and peritoneal mesothelial cells .
however , in the past , the relationship between angii and stromal cell-derived factor-1 ( sdf-1 ) in the microenvironment around cancer and the role of angii on emt of cancer cells has not been reported in detail .
sdf-1 and its specific receptor , cxcr4 , are now receiving attention as a mechanism of cell progression and metastasis .
in this study , we examined whether activated hscs promote tumor fibrogenesis , tumor progression and distant metastasis by mediating emt via the angii/angii type 1 receptor ( at-1 ) and the sdf-1/cxcr4 axis .
two human icc cell lines and a human hsc line , li-90 , express cxcr4 .
significantly higher concentration of sdf-1 was released into the supernatant of li-90 cells to which angii had been added .
sdf-1 increased the proliferative activity of hscs and enhanced the activation of hscs as a growth factor .
furthermore , addition of sdf-1 and angii enhanced the increase of the migratory capability and vimentin expression , reduced e-cadherin expression , and translocated the expression of -catenin into the nucleus and cytoplasm in icc cells .
co-culture with hscs also enhanced the migratory capability of icc cells .
these findings suggest that sdf-1 , released from activated hscs and angii , play important roles in cancer progression , tumor fibrogenesis , and migration in autocrine and paracrine fashion by mediating emt .
our mechanistic findings may provide pivotal insights into the molecular mechanism of the angii and sdf-1-initiated signaling pathway that regulates fibrogenesis in cancerous stroma , tumor progression and meta-stasis of tumor cells expressing at-1 and cxcr4 .
cancer cells typically display altered glucose metabolism characterized by a preference of aerobic glycolysis , known as the warburg effect , which facilitates cell proliferation .
hypoxia-inducible factor ( hif ) and oncoprotein myc are two prominent transcription factors that drive glycolysis .
previously , we reported that the estrogen-related receptors ( errs ) act as cofactors of hif and enhance hif-dependent transcription of glycolytic genes under hypoxia .
errs are orphan nuclear receptors and key regulators of energy metabolism by orchestrating mitochondrial biogenesis , fatty acid oxidation ( fao ) and oxidative phosphorylation .
here , we show that errs also stimulate glycolysis under normoxia .
errs directly bind to and activate promoters of many genes encoding glycolytic enzymes , and the err-binding sites in such promoters are essential for err-mediated transcriptional activation .
errs interact with myc , and the two factors synergistically activate transcription of glycolytic genes .
furthermore , overexpression of errs increases glycolytic gene expression and lactate production .
conversely , depletion of errs in cancer cells reduces expression of glycolytic genes and glucose uptake , resulting in decreased aerobic glycolysis and cell growth .
taken together , these results suggest that errs are important transcriptional activators of the glycolytic pathway and contribute to the warburg effect in cancer cells .
the results of experimental studies have indicated the pleiotropic effects of statins in organism , e.g. the influence on cell cycle , apoptosis or angiogenesis .
in this study , the effects of simvastatin on selected parameters of apoptosis and proliferation in chemocarcinogen-induced mammary tumorigenesis in female rats were determined .
simvastatin was administered dietary at a dose of 18 mg/kg and highly effective dose of 180 mg/kg the entire experiment ( 18 weeks ) .
at autopsy mammary tumors were removed and prepared for immunohistochemical and histomorphological analysis .
in treated animals ( simvastatin 180 mg/kg ) , significant decrease by 12% in bcl-2 protein expression and non-significant decrease by 27% of ki67 protein expression in tumor cells compared to tumor cells in control animals were observed after semiquantitative evaluation .
morphometrical analysis has shown significant proapototic shift in bcl-2/bax ratio in tumor cells .
in high grade control carcinoma cells , the expression of ki67 increased by 37% ( non-significantly ) in comparison with control low grade carcinomas .
a histomorphological analysis of malignant tumors has revealed a shift from high grade to low grade carcinomas after simvastatin treatment .
the noticeable decrease of mammary tumor frequency and incidence in rats after simvastatin treatment was accompanied with antiapoptotic blc-2 protein decrease and proapoptotic bax protein increase in this experiment .
head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( hnscc ) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality underscoring the need for safe and effective chemopreventive strategies .
targeting epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) is attractive in that it is an early critical event in hnscc pathogenesis .
however , current agents lack efficacy or have unacceptable toxicity .
several groups have demonstrated that the over-the-counter medication , polyethylene glycol ( peg ) has remarkable chemopreventive efficacy against colon carcinogenesis .
importantly , we reported that this effect is mediated through egfr internalization/degradation .
in the current study , we investigated the chemopreventive efficacy of this agent against hnscc , using both the well validated animal model 4-nqo ( 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide ) rat model and cell culture with the human hnscc cell line scc-25 .
we demonstrated that daily topical application of 10% peg-8000 in the oral cavity ( tongue and cavity wall ) post 4nqo initiation resulted in a significant reduction in tumor burden ( both , tumor size and tumors/tumor bearing rat ) without any evidence of toxicity .
immunohistochemical studies depicted decreased proliferation ( number of ki67-positive cells ) and reduced expression of egfr and its downstream effectors cyclin d1 in the tongue mucosa of 4nqo-rats treated with peg .
we showed that egfr was also markedly downregulated in scc-25 cells by peg-8000 with a concomitant induction of g1-s phase cell-cycle arrest , which was potentially mediated through upregulated p21(cip1/waf1) .
in conclusion , we demonstrate , for the first time , that peg has promising efficacy and safety as a chemopreventive efficacy against oral carcinogenesis .
the therapeutic principle of allogeneic haematopoietic cell transplantation ( allo-hct ) is based on an active donor immune system that eliminates host-derived tumour cells .
we hypothesized that in addition to the alloantigen-driven anti-tumour response , disruption of the immunological microenvironment within the tumour is responsible for its elimination after allo-hct .
we observed that induction of graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) significantly reduced the abundance of luc(+) foxp3(+) regulatory t ( treg ) cells in the tumour tissue , which is indicative of impaired or over-ridden tumour recruitment signals towards treg cells .
analysis of the intestines and liver revealed chemokines and purine nucleotides as candidates for attracting treg to these sites of inflammation .
despite its expression on tissue-residing treg cells , the chemokine receptor ccr3 was not critical for treg-cell function following allo-hct .
extracellular atp can attract immune cells via p2y2 .
p2y2 was found to be expressed on treg cells , and we found a partial reduction of gvhd prevention when p2y2(-/-) rather than p2y2(+/+) treg cells were given .
exogenous local inflammation reduced treg-cell accumulation in the tumour , suggesting a potential clinical approach to prevent treg-cell-mediated tumour escape .
in conclusion , we demonstrate that gvhd-related inflammation reduced treg-cell numbers at the tumour sites , which may in turn help to explain the observation that patients with gvhd have a lower risk of tumour relapse .
to determine the threshold dose of -naphthoflavone ( bnf ) that induces hepatocellular tumor promoting effects , reactive oxygen species ( ros ) generation and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance ( tbars ) formation , and drug-metabolizing enzymes that protect against ros generation , two-stage liver carcinogenesis model was used .
partial hepatectomized rats ( n = 11 to 12 ) were fed diets containing 0 , 0.03 , 0.06 , 0.125 or 0.25% bnf for 6 weeks after an intraperitoneal injection of n-diethylnitrosamine ( den ) to initiate hepatocarcinogenesis .
histopathologically , glutathione s-transferase placental form ( gst-p)-positive foci significantly increased in rats given 0.25% bnf .
no marked changes in ros production and tbars contents were observed between the bnf treated and den alone groups .
real-time rt-pcr showed that the expression of cyp1a1 , cyp1a2 , cyp1b1 and nqo1 significantly increased in the groups given 0.03% bnf or more , but ugt1a6 , akr7a3 and gstm1 significantly increased in the groups given 0.125% bnf or more .
gpx2 and yc2 significantly increased in the groups given 0.06% bnf or more and 0.25% bnf , respectively .
inflammation-related genes such as ccl2 , mmp12 , serpine1 and cox-2 significantly increased in the 0.25% bnf group .
in immunohistochemistry , the number of cyclooxygenase-2 ( cox-2)-positive cells increased in rats given 0.25% bnf .
these results suggest that 0.25% bnf is the threshold dose for liver tumor promotion , and the fact that inflammation-related genes and cox-2 protein increased in the 0.25% bnf group strongly suggests that inflammation is involved in the liver tumor promoting effect of bnf in rats .
the functional and therapeutic importance of the warburg effect is increasingly recognized , and glycolysis has become a target of anticancer strategies .
we recently reported the identification of a group of novel small compounds that inhibit basal glucose transport and reduce cancer cell growth by a glucose deprivation-like mechanism .
we hypothesized that the compounds target glut1 and are efficacious in vivo as anticancer agents .
here , we report that a novel representative compound wzb117 not only inhibited cell growth in cancer cell lines but also inhibited cancer growth in a nude mouse model .
daily intraperitoneal injection of wzb117 at 10 mg/kg resulted in a more than 70% reduction in the size of human lung cancer of a549 cell origin .
mechanism studies showed that wzb117 inhibited glucose transport in human red blood cells ( rbc ) , which express glut1 as their sole glucose transporter .
cancer cell treatment with wzb117 led to decreases in levels of glut1 protein , intracellular atp , and glycolytic enzymes .
all these changes were followed by increase in atp-sensing enzyme amp-activated protein kinase ( ampk ) and declines in cyclin e2 as well as phosphorylated retinoblastoma , resulting in cell-cycle arrest , senescence , and necrosis .
addition of extracellular atp rescued compound-treated cancer cells , suggesting that the reduction of intracellular atp plays an important role in the anticancer mechanism of the molecule .
senescence induction and the essential role of atp were reported for the first time in glut1 inhibitor-treated cancer cells .
thus , wzb117 is a prototype for further development of anticancer therapeutics targeting glut1-mediated glucose transport and glucose metabolism .
helicobacter hepaticus-infected rag2(-/-) mice emulate many aspects of human inflammatory bowel disease , including the development of colitis and colon cancer .
to elucidate mechanisms of inflammation-induced carcinogenesis , we undertook a comprehensive analysis of histopathology , molecular damage , and gene expression changes during disease progression in these mice .
infected mice developed severe colitis and hepatitis by 10wk post-infection , progressing into colon carcinoma by 20wk post-infection , with pronounced pathology in the cecum and proximal colon marked by infiltration of neutrophils and macrophages .
transcriptional profiling revealed decreased expression of dna repair and oxidative stress response genes in colon , but not in liver .
mass spectrometric analysis revealed higher levels of dna and rna damage products in liver compared to colon and infection-induced increases in 5-chlorocytosine in dna and rna and hypoxanthine in dna .
paradoxically , infection was associated with decreased levels of dna etheno adducts .
levels of nucleic acid damage from the same chemical class were strongly correlated in both liver and colon .
the results support a model of inflammation-mediated carcinogenesis involving infiltration of phagocytes and generation of reactive species that cause local molecular damage leading to cell dysfunction , mutation , and cell death .
there are strong correlations among histopathology , phagocyte infiltration , and damage chemistry that suggest a major role for neutrophils in inflammation-associated cancer progression .
further , paradoxical changes in nucleic acid damage were observed in tissue- and chemistry-specific patterns .
the results also reveal features of cell stress response that point to microbial pathophysiology and mechanisms of cell senescence as important mechanistic links to cancer .
the secretin receptor ( sr ) , a g protein-coupled receptor , mediates the effects of the gastrointestinal hormone secretin on digestion and water homeostasis .
recently , high sr expression has been observed in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas , cholangiocellular carcinomas , gastrinomas , and bronchopulmonary carcinoid tumors .
receptor overexpression associates with enhanced secretin-mediated signaling , but whether this molecule plays an independent role in tumorigenesis is currently unknown .
we recently discovered that pheochromocytomas developing in rats affected by the menx ( multiple endocrine neoplasia-like ) syndrome express at very high-level sctr , encoding sr .
we here report that sr are also highly abundant on the membranes of rat adrenal and extraadrenal pheochromocytoma , starting from early stages of tumor development , and are functional .
pc12 cells , the best characterized in vitro pheochromocytoma model , also express sctr at high level .
thus , we used them as model to study the role of sr in neoplastic transformation .
small interfering rna-mediated knockdown of sctr decreases pc12 cells proliferation and increases p27 levels .
the proproliferative effect of sr in pc12 cells is mediated , in part , by the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase ( pi3k)/serine-threonine protein kinase ( akt ) pathway .
transfection of sctr in y1 adrenocortical carcinoma cells , expressing low endogenous levels of sctr , stimulates cell proliferation also , in part , via the pi3k/akt signaling cascade .
because of the link between sr and pi3k/akt signaling , tumor cells expressing high levels of the receptor ( menx-associated primary pheochromocytoma and nci-h727 human bronchopulmonary carcinoid cells ) respond well and in a sr-dependent manner to pi3k inhibitors , such as nvp-bez235 .
the association between sr levels and response to pi3k inhibition might open new avenues for the treatment of tumors overexpressing this receptor .
cdkn1c/p57 is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor implicated in different human cancers , including hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) ; however , little is known regarding the role of cdkn1c/p57 and its regulation in hcc .
in this study , we show that the down-regulation of notch1 and notch3 in two hcc cell lines resulted in hes1 down-regulation , cdkn1c/p57 up-regulation , and reduced cell growth .
in line with these data , we report that cdkn1c/p57 is a target of transcriptional repression by the notch effector , hes1 .
we found that the up-regulation of cdkn1c/p57 by cdna transfection decreased tumor growth , as determined by growth curve , flow cytometry analysis , and cyclin d1 down-regulation , without affecting the apoptosis machinery .
indeed , the expression of bax , noxa , puma , bnip(3) , and cleaved caspase-3 was not affected by cdkn1c/p57 induction .
morphologically cdkn1c/p57-induced hcc cells became flat and lengthened in shape , accumulated the senescence-associated -galactosidase marker , and increased p16 protein expression .
evaluation of senescence in cells depleted both for hes1 and cdkn1c/p57 revealed that the senescent state really depends on the accumulation of cdkn1c/p57 .
finally , we validated our in vitro results in primary hccs , showing that hes1 protein expression inversely correlates with cdkn1c/p57 mrna levels .
in addition , reduced hes1 protein expression is accompanied by a shorter time to recurrence after curative resection , suggesting that hes1 may represent a biomarker for prediction of patients with poor prognosis .
silver nanoparticles ( ag-np ) have been used in medicine and commercially due to their anti-microbial properties .
therapeutic potentials of these nanoparticles are being explored extensively despite the lack of information on their mechanism of action at molecular and cellular level .
here , we have investigated the dna damage response and repair following ag-np treatment in mammalian cells .
studies have shown that ag-np exerts genotoxicity through double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) .
dna-pkcs , the catalytic subunit of dna dependent protein kinase , is an important caretaker of the genome which is known to be the main player mediating non-homologous end-joining ( nhej ) repair pathway .
we hypothesize that dna-pkcs is responsible for the repair of ag-np induced dna damage .
in vitro studies have been carried out to investigate both cytotoxicity and genotoxicity induced by ag-np in normal human cells , dna-pkcs proficient , and deficient mammalian cells .
chemical inhibition of dna-pkcs activity with nu7026 , an atp-competitive inhibitor of dna-pkcs , has been performed to further validate the role of dna-pkcs in this model .
our results suggest that ag-np induced more prominent dose-dependent decrease in cell viability in dna-pkcs deficient or inhibited cells .
the deficiency or inhibition of dna-pkcs renders the cells with higher susceptibility to dna damage and genome instability which in turn contributed to greater cell cycle arrest/cell death .
these findings support the fact that dna-pkcs is involved in the repair of ag-np induced genotoxicity and nhej repair pathway and dna-pkcs particularly is activated to safeguard the genome upon ag-np exposure .
proliferating cells consume more glucose to cope with the bioenergetics and biosynthetic demands of rapidly dividing cells as well as to counter a shift in cellular redox environment .
this study investigates the hypothesis that manganese superoxide dismutase ( mnsod ) regulates cellular redox flux and glucose consumption during the cell cycle .
a direct correlation was observed between glucose consumption and percentage of s-phase cells in mnsod wild-type fibroblasts , which was absent in mnsod homozygous knockout fibroblasts .
results from electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy and flow cytometric assays showed a significant increase in cellular superoxide levels in s-phase cells , which was associated with an increase in glucose and oxygen consumption , and a decrease in mnsod activity .
mass spectrometry results showed a complex pattern of mnsod-methylation at both lysine ( 68 , 89 , 122 , and 202 ) and arginine ( 197 and 216 ) residues .
mnsod protein carrying a k89a mutation had significantly lower activity compared with wild-type mnsod .
computational-based simulations indicate that lysine and arginine methylation of mnsod during quiescence would allow greater accessibility to the enzyme active site as well as increase the positive electrostatic potential around and within the active site .
methylation-dependent changes in the mnsod conformation and subsequent changes in the electrostatic potential around the active site during quiescence versus proliferation could increase the accessibility of superoxide , a negatively charged substrate .
these results support the hypothesis that mnsod regulates a " metabolic switch " during progression from quiescent through the proliferative cycle .
we propose mnsod as a new molecular player contributing to the warburg effect .
past studies have shown that amplified insulin-like growth factor 1 ( igf1)/igf1 receptor ( igf1-r ) signalling has an important role in colorectal cancer ( crc ) development , progression and resistance to treatment .
in this report , we demonstrate that downregulation of microrna-497 ( mir-497 ) as a result of dna copy number reduction is involved in upregulation of igf1-r in crc cells .
mir-497 and mir-195 of the mir-15/16/195/424/497 family that share the same 3 ' untranslated region ( 3'utr ) binding seed sequence and are predicted to target igf1-r were concurrently downregulated in the majority of crc tissues relative to paired adjacent normal mucosa .
however , only overexpression of mir-497 led to suppression of the igf1-r 3'utr activity and downregulation of the endogenous igf1-r protein in crc cells .
this was associated with inhibition of cell survival , proliferation and invasion , and increased sensitivity to apoptosis induced by various stimuli including the chemotherapeutic drugs cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil , and the death ligand tumour necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand .
the biological effect of mir-497 on crc cells was largely mediated by inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/akt signalling , as overexpression of an active form of akt reversed its impact on cell survival and proliferation , recapitulating the effect of overexpression of igf1-r .
downregulation of mir-497 and mir-195 appeared to associate with copy number loss of a segment of chromosome 17p13.1 , where these mirs are located at proximity .
similarly to mir-195 , the members of the same mir family , mir-424 that was upregulated , and mir-15a , mir-15b and mir-16 that were unaltered in expression in crc tissues compared with paired adjacent normal mucosa , did not appear to have a role in regulating the expression of igf1-r .
taken together , these results identify downregulation of mir-497 as an important mechanism of upregulation of igf1-r in crc cells that contributes to malignancy of crc.oncogene advance online publication , 18 june 2012 ; doi:10.1038/onc.2012.214 .
to elucidate the function of mas-related gpcr , member d ( mrgd ) in cancers , we investigated the in vitro and in vivo oncogenic function of mrgd using murine fibroblast cell line nih3t3 in which mrgd is stably expressed .
the expression pattern of mrgd in clinical samples was also analyzed .
we found that overexpression of mrgd in nih3t3 induced focus formation and multi-cellular spheroid formation , and promoted tumors in nude mice .
in other words , overexpression of mrgd in nih3t3 induced the loss of contact inhibition , anchorage-independent growth and in vivo tumorigenesis .
furthermore , it was found that the ligand of mrgd , beta-alanine , enhanced spheroid formation in mrgd-expressing nih3t3 cells .
from investigation of clinical cancer tissues , we found high expression of mrgd in several lung cancers by immunohistochemistry as well as real time pcr .
based on these results , mrgd could be involved in tumorigenesis and could also be a novel anticancer drug target .
contact inhibition of locomotion ( cil ) is the process by which cells stop the continual migration in the same direction after collision with another cell .
highly invasive malignant cells exhibit diminished cil when they contact stromal cells , which allows invasion of the tissue by tumors .
we show that nm23-h1 is essential for the suppression of rac1 through inactivation of tiam1 at the sites of cell-cell contact , which plays a pivotal role in cil .
u87mg cells show cil when they contact normal glia .
in spheroid confrontation assays u87mg cells showed only limited invasion of the glial population , but reduction of nm23-h1 expression in u87mg cells abrogated cil resulting in invasion .
in u87mg cells , nm23-h1 is translocated to the sites of contact with glia through association with -catenin and n-cadherin .
mutants of nm23-h1 , which lacked the binding ability with tiam1 , or -catenin did not restore cil .
moreover , the expression of ephrin-b1 in tumor cells disrupted cil and promoted invasion .
as one mechanism , ephrin-b1 inhibits the association of nm23-h1 with tiam1 , which contributes for activation of rac1 .
these results indicate a novel function of nm23-h1 to control cil , and its negative regulation by ephrin-b1 .
recent evidence indicates that the estrogen receptor--negative , androgen receptor ( ar)-positive molecular apocrine subtype of breast cancer is driven by ar signaling .
the mda-mb-453 cell line is the prototypical model of this breast cancer subtype ; its proliferation is stimulated by androgens such as 5-dihydrotestosterone ( dht ) but inhibited by the progestin medroxyprogesterone acetate ( mpa ) via ar-mediated mechanisms .
we report here that the ar gene in mda-mb-453 cells contains a g-t transversion in exon 7 , resulting in a receptor variant with a glutamine to histidine substitution at amino acid 865 ( q865h ) in the ligand binding domain .
compared with wild-type ar , the q865h variant exhibited reduced sensitivity to dht and mpa in transactivation assays in mda-mb-453 and pc-3 cells but did not respond to non-androgenic ligands or receptor antagonists .
ligand binding , molecular modeling , mammalian two-hybrid and immunoblot assays revealed effects of the q865h mutation on ligand dissociation , ar intramolecular interactions , and receptor stability .
microarray expression profiling demonstrated that dht and mpa regulate distinct transcriptional programs in mda-mb-453 cells .
gene set enrichment analysis revealed that dht- but not mpa-regulated genes were associated with estrogen-responsive transcriptomes from mcf-7 cells and the wnt signaling pathway .
these findings suggest that the divergent proliferative responses of mda-mb-453 cells to dht and mpa result from the different genetic programs elicited by these two ligands through the ar-q865h variant .
this work highlights the necessity to characterize additional models of molecular apocrine breast cancer to determine the precise role of ar signaling in this breast cancer subtype .
sirtuin proteins regulate diverse cellular pathways that influence genomic stability , metabolism and ageing .
sirt7 is a mammalian sirtuin whose biochemical activity , molecular targets and physiological functions have been unclear .
here we show that sirt7 is an nad(+)-dependent h3k18ac ( acetylated lysine 18 of histone h3 ) deacetylase that stabilizes the transformed state of cancer cells .
genome-wide binding studies reveal that sirt7 binds to promoters of a specific set of gene targets , where it deacetylates h3k18ac and promotes transcriptional repression .
the spectrum of sirt7 target genes is defined in part by its interaction with the cancer-associated e26 transformed specific ( ets ) transcription factor elk4 , and comprises numerous genes with links to tumour suppression .
notably , selective hypoacetylation of h3k18ac has been linked to oncogenic transformation , and in patients is associated with aggressive tumour phenotypes and poor prognosis .
we find that deacetylation of h3k18ac by sirt7 is necessary for maintaining essential features of human cancer cells , including anchorage-independent growth and escape from contact inhibition .
moreover , sirt7 is necessary for a global hypoacetylation of h3k18ac associated with cellular transformation by the viral oncoprotein e1a .
finally , sirt7 depletion markedly reduces the tumorigenicity of human cancer cell xenografts in mice .
together , our work establishes sirt7 as a highly selective h3k18ac deacetylase and demonstrates a pivotal role for sirt7 in chromatin regulation , cellular transformation programs and tumour formation in vivo .
elevated phosphorylation of estrogen receptor  ( er ) at serines 118 ( s118 ) and 167 ( s167 ) is associated with favorable outcome for tamoxifen adjuvant therapy and may serve as surrogate markers for a functional er signaling pathway in breast cancer .
it is possible that loss of phosphorylation at s118 and/or s167 could disrupt er signaling , resulting in aggressive er-independent breast cancer cells .
to this end , mcf-7 breast cancer cells were stably transfected with an er-specific short hairpin rna that reduced endogenous er .
the resulting cell line was stably transfected with wild-type er ( er-ab cells ) , or er containing serine to alanine mutation at s118 or s167 ( s118a cells and s167a cells , respectively ) .
these stable cell lines expressed approximately equivalent er compared with parental mcf-7 cells and were evaluated for growth , morphology , migration/invasion , and er-regulated gene expression .
s118a cells and s167a cells exhibited increased growth and migration/invasion in vitro .
forward- and side-scatter flow cytometry revealed that s167a cells were smaller in size , and both s118a and s167a cells exhibited less cellular complexity .
s118a and s167a cells expressed pancytokeratin and membrane localization of -catenin and did not express vimentin , indicating retention of epithelial lineage markers .
expression of er-target genes and other genes regulated by er signaling or involved in breast cancer were markedly altered in both s118a and s167a cells .
in summary , attenuated phosphorylation of er at s118 and s167 significantly affected cellular physiology and behavior in mcf-7 breast cancer cells , resulting in increased growth , migration/invasion , compromised expression of er target genes , and markedly altered gene expression patterns .
hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) is the fifth most common cancer worldwide .
major risk factors of hcc include infection with hepatitis b or c viruses , alcohol and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease .
hcc is difficult to diagnose at early stage , and has a very poor survival rate when diagnosed at a late stage .
the majority of hcc-related deaths result from local invasion ( to cause liver failure ) or distant metastases .
there is an urgent need to identify effective molecular targets for the treatment of the disease .
as the target of an established class of therapeutic agent thiazolidinediones ( tzds ) , peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor  ( ppar ) has been widely studied for its role in the development of hcc .
a substantial body of evidence based on in vitro and in vivo models indicates that the activation of ppar is able to inhibit hcc cell proliferation and tumor growth through inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis via the regulation of a panel of downstream effector molecules .
ppar activation also induces an inhibitory effect on hcc metastasis .
meanwhile , there is new evidence suggesting that ppar inhibition could also be anti-tumorigenic .
in the present review , we summarize the available information on the role of ppar in hcc development and spread , and discuss whether ppar activation by tzds could play a role in the treatment of hcc , summarizing both in vitro and in vivo .
considering the available data , ppar seems to exert beneficial effects against hcc and may therefore represent as a therapeutic target .
micrornas ( mirnas ) are small noncoding rnas , 19-24 nucleotides in length , that regulate gene expression and are expressed aberrantly in most types of cancer .
mirnas also have been detected in the blood of cancer patients and can serve as circulating biomarkers .
it has been shown that secreted mirnas within exosomes can be transferred from cell to cell and can regulate gene expression in the receiving cells by canonical binding to their target messenger rnas .
here we show that tumor-secreted mir-21 and mir-29a also can function by another mechanism , by binding as ligands to receptors of the toll-like receptor ( tlr ) family , murine tlr7 and human tlr8 , in immune cells , triggering a tlr-mediated prometastatic inflammatory response that ultimately may lead to tumor growth and metastasis .
thus , by acting as paracrine agonists of tlrs , secreted mirnas are key regulators of the tumor microenvironment .
this mechanism of action of mirnas is implicated in tumor-immune system communication and is important in tumor growth and spread , thus representing a possible target for cancer treatment .
non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) , accounting for 80% of lung cancers , is the leading cause of all cancer deaths .
previously , we demonstrated that delta-tocotrienol inhibits nsclc cell proliferation , invasion and induces apoptosis by down-regulation of the notch-1 signaling pathway .
the objective of this study was to investigate whether delta-tocotrienol , could enhance the anticancer effects of cisplatin .
treatment with a combination of delta-tocotrienol and cisplatin resulted in a dose-dependent , significant inhibition of cell growth , migration , invasiveness , and induction of apoptosis in nsclc cells , as compared to the single agents .
this was associated with a decrease in nf-b dna binding activity , decrease in notch-1 , hes-1 , bcl-2 and increase in cleaved caspase-3 and parp expressions .
these results suggest that down-regulation of notch-1 , via inhibition of nf-b signaling pathways by delta-tocotrienol and cisplatin , in combination , could provide a potential novel approach for tumor arrest in nsclc , while lowering the effective dose of cisplatin .
geraniol ( goh ) , a naturally occurring monoterpene , has been shown to have antiproliferative , cell cycle arrest and apoptosis-inducing effects , and represents a promising cancer chemopreventive agent .
in the present study , we investigated the chemopreventive potential of goh ( 50 and 100mgkg(-1) body weight ) against 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene ( dmba)/12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate ( tpa)-mediated skin tumorigenesis in swiss albino mice .
the topical treatment of goh , 30min prior to tpa ( 2g per 200l of acetone ) treatment significantly inhibited tpa-induced skin edema , hyperplasia , cox-2 induction and oxidative stress response .
the goh treatment also resulted in reduction of tpa-induced ornithine decarboxylase activity and [ (3) h ] thymidine incorporation by 53% ( p&lt;0.001 ) and 41% ( p&lt;0.001 ) , respectively .
we found that goh treatment significantly inhibited the tumor incidence and number of tumors ( p&lt;0.001 ) and extended the latency period from 4weeks in dmba/tpa treatment group to 10weeks in goh-pretreated mice .
furthermore , we observed that goh treatment significantly suppressed the ras/raf/erk1/2 signaling pathway in skin tumor .
consistently , goh-treated skin tumors showed reduced expression of bcl-2 and increased expression of bax in these lesions .
thus , it was concluded that goh inhibits dmba/tpa-mediated skin tumorigenesis by attenuating the ras proliferation pathway and inducing pro-apoptotic state via inhibition of oxidative stress response and inflammation .
circulating tumour cells ( ctcs ) shed into blood from primary cancers include putative precursors that initiate distal metastases .
although these cells are extraordinarily rare , they may identify cellular pathways contributing to the blood-borne dissemination of cancer .
here , we adapted a microfluidic device for efficient capture of ctcs from an endogenous mouse pancreatic cancer model and subjected ctcs to single-molecule rna sequencing , identifying wnt2 as a candidate gene enriched in ctcs .
expression of wnt2 in pancreatic cancer cells suppresses anoikis , enhances anchorage-independent sphere formation , and increases metastatic propensity in vivo .
this effect is correlated with fibronectin upregulation and suppressed by inhibition of map3k7 ( also known as tak1 ) kinase .
in humans , formation of non-adherent tumour spheres by pancreatic cancer cells is associated with upregulation of multiple wnt genes , and pancreatic ctcs revealed enrichment for wnt signalling in 5 out of 11 cases .
thus , molecular analysis of ctcs may identify candidate therapeutic targets to prevent the distal spread of cancer .
glycolysis is the initial step of glucose catabolism and is up-regulated in cancer cells ( the warburg effect ) .
such shifts toward a glycolytic phenotype have not been explored widely in other biological systems , and the molecular mechanisms underlying the shifts remain unknown .
with proteomics , we observed increased glycolysis in disused human diaphragm muscle .
in disused muscle , lung cancer , and h(2)o(2)-treated myotubes , we show up-regulation of the rate-limiting glycolytic enzyme muscle-type phosphofructokinase ( pfkm , &gt;2 fold , p&lt;0.05 ) and accumulation of lactate ( &gt;150% , p&lt;0.05 ) .
using microrna profiling , we identify mir-320a as a regulator of pfkm expression .
reduced mir-320a levels ( to 50% of control , p&lt;0.05 ) are associated with the increased pfkm in each of these diverse systems .
manipulation of mir-320a levels both in vitro and in vivo alters pfkm and lactate levels in the expected directions .
further , mir-320a appears to regulate oxidative stress-induced pfkm expression , and reduced mir-320a allows greater induction of glycolysis in response to h(2)o(2) treatment .
we show that this microrna-mediated regulation occurs through pfkm's 3 ' untranslated region and that ets proteins are involved in the regulation of pfkm via mir-320a .
these findings suggest that oxidative stress-responsive microrna-320a may regulate glycolysis broadly within nature .
epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) induces an uncoordinated s-phase-like cellular environment coupled with multiple prophase-like events in cells replicating the virus .
the ebv encoded ser/thr kinase bglf4 has been shown to induce premature chromosome condensation through activation of condensin and topoisomerase ii and reorganization of the nuclear lamina to facilitate the nuclear egress of nucleocapsids in a pathway mimicking cdk1 .
however , the observation that rb is hyperphosphorylated in the presence of bglf4 raised the possibility that bglf4 may have a cdk2-like activity to promote s-phase progression .
here , we investigated the regulatory effects of bglf4 on cell cycle progression and found that s-phase progression and dna synthesis were interrupted by bglf4 in mammalian cells .
expression of bglf4 did not compensate cdk1 defects for dna replication in s. cerevisiae .
using time-lapse microscopy , we found the fate of individual hela cells was determined by the expression level of bglf4 .
in addition to slight cell growth retardation , bglf4 elicits abnormal chromosomal structure and micronucleus formation in 293 and ncp-tw01 cells .
in saos-2 cells , bglf4 induced the hyperphosphorylation of co-transfected rb , while e2f1 was not released from rb-e2f1 complexes .
the e2f1 regulated activities of the cyclin d1 and zbrk1 promoters were suppressed by bglf4 in a dose dependent manner .
detection with phosphoamino acid specific antibodies revealed that , in addition to ser780 , phosphorylation of the dna damage-responsive ser612 on rb was enhanced by bglf4 .
taken together , our study indicates that bglf4 may directly or indirectly induce a dna damage signal that eventually interferes with host dna synthesis and delays s-phase progression .
while human embryonic stem cells ( hescs ) and human embryonal carcinoma cells ( heccs ) have been studied extensively at the levels of the genome , transcriptome , proteome and epigenome our knowledge of their corresponding metabolomes is limited .
here , we present the metabolic signatures of hescs and hescs obtained by untargeted gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry ( gc-ms ) .
whilst some metabolites are common to both cell types , representing the self-renewal and house-keeping signatures , others were either higher ( e.g. , octadecenoic acid , glycerol-3-phosphate , 4-hydroxyproline ) or lower ( e.g. , glutamic acid , mannitol , malic acid , gaba ) in hescs ( h9 ) compared to heccs ( ntera2 ) , these represent cell type specific signatures .
further , our combined results of gc-ms and microarray based gene expression profiling of undifferentiated and oct4-depleted hescs are consistent with the warburg effect which is increased glycolysis in embryonic cells and tumor cells in the presence of o(2) while oxidative phosphorylation ( oxphos ) is impaired or even shut down .
rnai-based oct4 knock down mediated differentiation resulted in the activation of the poised oxphos machinery by expressing missing key proteins such as ndufc1 , uqcrb and cox , increase in tca cycle activity and decreased lactate metabolism .
these results shed light on the metabolite layer of pluripotent stem cells and could potentially establish novel metabolic markers of self renewal and pluripotency .
inhibition of cell proliferation by fenoterol and fenoterol derivatives in 1321n1 astrocytoma cells is consistent with (2)-adrenergic receptor ( (2)-ar ) stimulation .
however , the events that result in fenoterol-mediated control of cell proliferation in other cell types are not clear .
here , we compare the effect of the (2)-ar agonists ( r,r')-fenoterol ( fen ) and ( r,r')-4-methoxy-1-naphthylfenoterol ( mnf ) on signaling and cell proliferation in hepg2 hepatocarcinoma cells by using western blotting and [ (3)h]thymidine incorporation assays .
despite the expression of (2)-ar , no camp accumulation was observed when cells were stimulated with isoproterenol or fen , although the treatment elicited both mitogen-activated protein kinase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/akt activation .
unexpectedly , isoproterenol and fen promoted hepg2 cell growth , but mnf reduced proliferation together with increased apoptosis .
the mitogenic responses of fen were attenuated by 3-(isopropylamino)-1-[(7-methyl-4-indanyl)oxy]butan-2-ol ( ici 118,551 ) , a (2)-ar antagonist , whereas those of mnf were unaffected .
because of the coexpression of (2)-ar and cannabinoid receptors ( cbrs ) and their impact on hepg2 cell proliferation , these g(i)/g(o)-linked receptors may be implicated in mnf signaling .
cell treatment with ( r)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-napthalenylmethanone ( win 55,212-2 ) , a synthetic agonist of cb(1)r and cb(2)r , led to growth inhibition , whereas inverse agonists of these receptors blocked mnf mitogenic responses without affecting fen signaling .
mnf responses were sensitive to pertussis toxin .
the (2)-ar-deficient u87mg cells were refractory to fen , but responsive to the antiproliferative actions of mnf and win 55,212-2 .
the data indicate that the presence of the naphthyl moiety in mnf results in functional coupling to the cbr pathway , providing one of the first examples of a dually acting (2)-ar-cbr ligand .
focal inflammation causes systemic fever .
cancer hyperthermia therapy results in shrinkage of tumors by various mechanisms , including induction of adaptive immune response .
however , the physiological meaning of systemic fever and mechanisms of tumor shrinkage by hyperthermia have not been completely understood .
in this study , we investigated how heat shock influences the adaptive immune system .
we established a cytotoxic t lymphocyte ( ctl ) clone ( #im29 ) specific for survivin , one of the tumor-associated antigens ( taas ) , from survivin peptide-immunized cancer patients ' peripheral blood , and the ctl activities were investigated in several temperature conditions ( 37-41c ) .
cytotoxicity and ifn- secretion of ctl were greatest under 39c condition , whereas they were minimum under 41c .
to address the molecular mechanisms of this phenomenon , we investigated the apoptosis status of ctls , expression of cd3 , cd8 , and tcr by flow cytometry , and expression of perforin , granzyme b , and fas ligand by western blot analysis .
the expression of perforin and granzyme b were upregulated under temperature conditions of 39 and 41c .
on the other hand , ctl cell death was induced under 41c condition with highest caspase-3 activity .
therefore , the greatest cytotoxicity activity at 39c might depend on upregulation of cytotoxic granule proteins including perforin and granzyme b. these results suggest that heat shock enhances effector phase of the adaptive immune system and promotes eradication of microbe and tumor cells .
src kinase is elevated in breast tumors that are er/pr negative and do not overexpress her2 , but clinical trials with src inhibitors have shown little activity .
the present study evaluated preclinical efficacy of a novel peptidomimetic compound , kx-01 ( kx2-391 ) , that exhibits dual action as an src and pretubulin inhibitor .
kx-01 was evaluated as a single-agent and in combination with paclitaxel in mda-mb-231 , mda-mb-157 , and mda-mb-468 human er/pr/her2-negative breast cancer cells .
treatments were evaluated by growth/apoptosis , isobologram analysis , migration/invasion assays , tumor xenograft volume , metastasis , and measurement of src , focal adhesion kinase ( fak ) , microtubules , ki67 , and microvessel density .
kx-01 inhibited cell growth in vitro and in combination with paclitaxel resulted in synergistic growth inhibition .
kx-01 resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of mda-mb-231 and mda-mb-157 tumor xenografts ( 1 and 5 mg/kg , twice daily ) .
kx-01 inhibited activity of src and downstream mediator fak in tumors that was coincident with reduced proliferation and angiogenesis and increased apoptosis .
kx01 also resulted in microtubule disruption in tumors .
combination of kx-01 with paclitaxel resulted in significant regression of mda-mb-231 tumors and reduced metastasis to mouse lung and liver .
kx-01 is a potently active src/pretubulin inhibitor that inhibits breast tumor growth and metastasis .
as er/pr/her2-negative patients are candidates for paclitaxel therapy , combination with kx-01 may potentiate antitumor efficacy in management of this aggressive breast cancer subtype .
lentinula edodes mycelia ( l.e.m. ) is a dried powder extracted from shiitake mushrooms ( lentinula edodes ) .
we previously demonstrated that it has immunomodulatory effects .
in this paper , the direct cytotoxic effects of the polysaccharide-rich fraction of l.e.m .
( l.e.m. ethanol precipitate ; lep ) on hepg2 human hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) cells were investigated .
lep directly killed the hepg2 cells efficaciously , but had only minor effects on normal rat hepatocytes and normal mouse dermal cells under the same conditions .
characteristic morphological changes associated with apoptosis such as shrinkage , rounding , and floating as well as chromatin condensation were confirmed ; terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labeling ( tunel ) staining was positive as determined by fluorescence microscopy analyses .
the caspase-3 and -8 death receptor pathway was found largely responsible for the apoptotic death of hepg2 cells treated with lep .
in conclusion , lep can directly induce apoptosis of hepg2 cells , and thus may have potential chemotherapeutic applications for the treatment of hcc .
epigenetic deregulation of gene expression has a role in the initiation and progression of prostate cancer ( pca ) .
the histone methyltransferase mmset/whsc1 ( multiple myeloma set domain ) is overexpressed in a number of metastatic tumors , but its mechanism of action has not been defined .
in this work , we found that pca cell lines expressed significantly higher levels of mmset compared with immortalized , non-transformed prostate cells .
knockdown experiments showed that , in metastatic pca cell lines , dimethylation of lysine 36 and trimethylation of lysine 27 on histone h3 ( h3k36me2 and h3k27me3 , respectively ) depended on mmset expression , whereas depletion of mmset in benign prostatic cells did not affect chromatin modifications .
knockdown of mmset in du145 and pc-3 tumor cells decreased cell proliferation , colony formation in soft agar and strikingly diminished cell migration and invasion .
conversely , overexpression of mmset in immortalized , non-transformed rwpe-1 cells promoted cell migration and invasion , accompanied by an epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) .
among a panel of emt-promoting genes analyzed , twist1 expression was strongly activated in response to mmset .
chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis demonstrated that mmset binds to the twist1 locus and leads to an increase in h3k36me2 , suggesting a direct role of mmset in the regulation of this gene .
depletion of twist1 in mmset-overexpressing rwpe-1 cells blocked cell invasion and emt , indicating that twist1 was a critical target of mmset , responsible for the acquisition of an invasive phenotype .
collectively , these data suggest that mmset has a role in pca pathogenesis and progression through epigenetic regulation of metastasis-related genes .
angiogenesis is critical for cancer growth and metastasis .
steps of angiogenesis are energy consuming , while vascular endothelial cells are highly glycolytic .
glioblastoma multiforme ( gbm ) is a highly vascular tumor and this enhances its aggressiveness .
d-amino acid oxidase ( dao ) is a promising therapeutic protein that induces oxidative stress upon acting on its substrates .
oxidative stress-energy depletion ( osed ) therapy was recently reported ( el sayed et al. , cancer gene ther , 19 , 1-18 , 2012 ) .
osed combines dao-induced oxidative stress with energy depletion caused by glycolytic inhibitors such as 3-bromopyruvate ( 3bp ) , a hexokinase ii inhibitor that depleted atp in cancer cells and induced production of hydrogen peroxide. 3bp disturbs the warburg effect and antagonizes effects of lactate and pyruvate ( el sayed et al. , j bioenerg biomembr , 44 , 61-79 , 2012 ) .
citrate is a natural organic acid capable of inhibiting glycolysis by targeting phosphofructokinase .
here , we report that dao , 3bp and citrate significantly inhibited angiogenesis , decreased the number of vascular branching points and shortened the length of vascular tubules .
osed delayed the growth of c6/dao glioma cells. 3bp combined with citrate delayed the growth of c6 glioma cells and decreased significantly the number and size of c6 glioma colonies in soft agar .
human gbm cells ( u373mg ) were resistant to chemotherapy e.g. cisplatin and cytosine arabinoside , while 3bp was effective in decreasing the viability and disturbing the morphology of u373mg cells .
background it has been proven that metastasis-associated in colon cancer 1 ( macc1 ) is a new gene that is related to the invasion and metastasis of tumors .
macc1 also regulates c-met expression .
the aim of this study is to explore the expressions of macc1 and hepatocyte growth factor receptor ( c-met ) , and its relationship with invasion , metastasis , and prognosis of non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) .
methods macc1 and c-met expressions were detected in 103 cases of nsclc and 40 cases of neighboring normal lung cancer tissue using immunohistochemistry .
results macc1 and c-met expressions were significantly higher in lung cancer tissues than that in neighboring normal tissue ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
macc1 and c-met expressions were associated with poor differentiation , advanced t stages , lymph node metastasis , and advanced tnm stages ( p&lt;0.05 ) of nsclc , but not with sex , age , smoking , and histological classification ( p&gt;0.05 ) .
in addition , a positive correlation between macc1 and c-met expressions was observed ( r=0.403 , p&lt;0.001 ) .
the result from the kaplan-meier survival analysis showed that the five-year survival rate in patients with positive macc1 and c-met expressions was remarkanly lower than that in patients with negative expressions ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
the result from the cox regression analysis showed that macc1 expression was an independent prognostic factor for nsclc ( p=0.026 ) .
conclusions macc1 and c-met have an important function in the differentiation , invasion , and metastasis of nsclc .
macc1 and c-met have poor prognosis in patients with nsclc .
moreover , macc1 expression is an independent prognostic factor for nsclc .
epigenetic changes in pediatric neuroblastoma may contribute to the aggressive pathophysiology of this disease , but little is known about the basis for such changes .
in this study , we examined a role for the dna methyltransferase dnmt3b , in particular , the truncated isoform dnmt3b7 , which is generated frequently in cancer .
to investigate if aberrant dnmt3b transcripts alter dna methylation , gene expression , and phenotypic character in neuroblastoma , we measured dnmt3b expression in primary tumors .
higher levels of dnmt3b7 were detected in differentiated ganglioneuroblastomas compared to undifferentiated neuroblastomas , suggesting that expression of dnmt3b7 may induce a less aggressive clinical phenotype .
to test this hypothesis , we investigated the effects of enforced dnmt3b7 expression in neuroblastoma cells , finding a significant inhibition of cell proliferation in vitro and angiogenesis and tumor growth in vivo .
dnmt3b7-positive cells had higher levels of total genomic methylation and a dramatic decrease in expression of the fos and jun family members that comprise ap1 transcription factors .
consistent with an established antagonistic relationship between ap1 expression and retinoic acid receptor activity , increased differentiation was seen in the dnmt3b7-expressing neuroblastoma cells following treatment with all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) compared to controls .
our results indicate that dnmt3b7 modifies the epigenome in neuroblastoma cells to induce changes in gene expression , inhibit tumor growth , and increase sensitivity to atra .
genetic and epigenetic changes in the von hippel-lindau ( vhl ) tumour suppressor gene are common in sporadic conventional ( clear cell ) renal cell carcinoma ( ccrcc ) .
the effects on vhl expression are unknown but increased understanding may be relevant clinically , either in terms of prognosis or in therapy selection .
we have examined the expression of vhl mutant rna in 84 ccrcc tumours previously screened for mutations in genomic dna , 56 of which contained 52 unique mutations or polymorphisms .
based on the predicted change to the primary amino acid sequence , 24 of the mutations were missense , 11 resulted in frameshifts with premature truncation , 9 resulted in immediate truncation at the site of the mutation and 2 were frameshifts which extended the reading frame beyond the normal stop codon .
nine tumours had intronic variants , including substitution of invariant residues at splice sites , deletion of nucleotides spanning the exon-intron junction , an intronic variant of unknown function and the polymorphism c.463+43a&gt;g .
four variants were identified which were present in genomic dna but not in mrna .
three of these , all encoding apparent missense changes to the primary amino acid sequence , were located close to the ends of exons , reduced the strength of the splice site and function as null rather than missense variants .
one nonsense variant was not detectable in mrna but all other mutations resulting in premature truncation codons ( ptcs ) were , suggesting truncating vhl mutations may potentially generate truncated vhl protein .
an intronic variant , c.34111t&gt;a , previously regarded as of unknown function , is associated with an increased level of skipping of exon 2 and may , therefore , reduce production of pvhl .
our data show that the biological consequences of vhl mutations are not necessarily predictable from the sequence change of the mutation and that for the majority of vhl mutations , the potential for the generation of mutant protein exists .
although interleukin-28a ( il-28a ) is believed to have an antiviral effect , its role in tumor migration requires further examination .
the present study was intended to verify the effect of il-28a on the migration of umuc-3 bladder cancer cells .
il-28a and its receptor il-28ar1 mrna were detected in umuc-3 cells .
although exogenous il-28a showed no effect on cell proliferation , a wound-healing migration assay showed that the migration of umuc-3 cells was induced by il-28a .
furthermore , treatment of the cells with il-28a significantly promoted mmp-9 expression via binding activities of nf-b and ap-1 .
il-28a also induced the activation of p38mapk and jak2-stat2 signaling .
using the p38mapk inhibitor sb203580 and the dominant-negative plasmid dn-p38 , we found evidence that the inhibition of p38mapk signaling suppressed the effects of il-28a including wound-healing migration and mmp-9 expression by activation of nf-b and ap-1 binding in umuc-3 cells .
however , jak-2 inhibition by ag490 did not affect il-28a-induced migration of umuc-3 cells .
collectively , we suggest for the first time that the p38mapk pathway mediates il-28a-induced cell migration through mmp-9 expression by activating nf-b and ap-1 binding motifs .
we have evaluated dna damage ( dna adduct formation ) after feeding benzo[a]pyrene ( bp ) to wild-type ( wt ) and cancer-susceptible xpa(-/-)p53(+/-) mice deficient in nucleotide excision repair and haploinsufficient for the tumor suppressor p53 .
dna damage was evaluated by high-performance liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry ( hplc/es-ms/ms ) , which measures r7,t8,t9-trihydroxy-c-10-(n ( 2)-deoxyguanosyl)-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo[a]pyrene ( bpdg ) , and a chemiluminescence immunoassay ( cia ) , using anti-r7,t8-dihydroxy-t-9,10-epoxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo[a]pyrene ( bpde)-dna antiserum , which measures both bpdg and the other stable bp-dna adducts .
when mice were fed 100 ppm bp for 28 days , bp-induced dna damage measured in esophagus , liver and lung was typically higher in xpa(-/-)p53(+/-) mice , compared with wt mice .
this result is consistent with the previously observed tumor susceptibility of xpa(-/-)p53(+/-) mice .
bpdg , the major dna adduct associated with tumorigenicity , was the primary dna adduct formed in esophagus ( a target tissue in the mouse ) , whereas total bp-dna adducts predominated in higher levels in the liver ( a non-target tissue in the mouse ) .
in an attempt to lower bp-induced dna damage , we fed the wt and xpa(-/-)p53(+/-) mice 0.3% chlorophyllin ( chl ) in the bp-containing diet for 28 days .
the addition of chl resulted in an increase of bp-dna adducts in esophagus , liver and lung of wt mice , a lowering of bpdg in esophagi of wt mice and livers of xpa(-/-)p53(+/-) mice and an increase of bpdg in livers of wt mice .
therefore , the addition of chl to a bp-containing diet showed a lack of consistent chemoprotective effect , indicating that oral chl administration may not reduce pah-dna adduct levels consistently in human organs .
nonmelanoma skin cancer ( nmsc ) is by far the most frequent type of cancer in humans .
nmsc includes several types of malignancies with different clinical outcomes , the most frequent being basal and squamous cell carcinomas .
we have used the sleeping beauty transposon/transposase system to identify somatic mutations associated with nmsc .
transgenic mice bearing multiple copies of a mutagenic sleeping beauty transposon t2onc2 and expressing the sb11 transposase under the transcriptional control of regulatory elements from the keratin k5 promoter were treated with tpa , either in wild-type or ha-ras mutated backgrounds .
after several weeks of treatment , mice with transposition developed more malignant tumors with decreased latency compared with control mice .
transposon/transposase animals also developed basal cell carcinomas .
genetic analysis of the transposon integration sites in the tumors identified several genes recurrently mutated in different tumor samples , which may represent novel candidate cancer genes .
we observed alterations in the expression levels of some of these genes in human tumors .
our results show that inactivating mutations in notch1 and nsd1 , among others , may have an important role in skin carcinogenesis .
a 34-year-old japanese woman presented with left supraclavicular lymph node swelling .
computed tomography scans revealed a mass on the left lower lobe , pulmonary nodules , and pleural effusion .
a lymph node biopsy revealed large-cell carcinoma with an epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) deletion mutation , l747-t751 in exon 19 .
although malignant pleural effusions carried the same egfr mutation , progressive pleural effusions after treatment with chemotherapy , gefitinib , and erlotinib did not show any egfr mutation .
a cell line established from the pleural effusion 3 days before the patient expired also did not harbor the egfr mutation .
histological sections of the lymph node of the patient were similar to those of the xenograft tumor of the cell line .
there may be genetic heterogeneity in egfr mutant tumors .
background colorectal cancer is one of the main cancers in the western world .
about 90% of the deaths arise from formation of distant metastasis .
the expression of the newly identified gene metastasis associated in colon cancer 1 ( macc1 ) is a prognostic indicator for colon cancer metastasis .
here , we analyzed for the first time the impact of single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snps ) in the coding region of macc1 for clinical outcome of colorectal cancer patients .
additionally , we screened met proto-oncogene ( met ) , the transcriptional target gene of macc1 , for mutations .
methods we sequenced the coding exons of macc1 in 154 colorectal tumors ( stages i , ii and iii ) and the crucial exons of met in 60 colorectal tumors ( stages i , ii and iii ) .
we analyzed the association of macc1 polymorphisms with clinical data , including metachronous metastasis , uicc stages , tumor invasion , lymph node metastasis and patients ' survival ( n = 154 , stages i , ii and iii ) .
furthermore , we performed biological assays in order to evaluate the functional impact of macc1 snps on the motility of colorectal cancer cells .
results we genotyped three macc1 snps in the coding region .
thirteen % of the tumors had the genotype cg ( rs4721888 , l31v ) , 48% a ct genotype ( rs975263 , s515l ) and 84% a gc or cc genotype ( rs3735615 , r804t ) .
we found no association of these snps with clinicopathological parameters or with patients ' survival , when analyzing the entire patients ' cohort .
an increased risk for a shorter metastasis-free survival of patients with a ct genotype ( rs975263 ) was observed in younger colon cancer patients with stage i or ii ( p = 0.041 , n = 18 ) .
in cell culture , macc1 snps did not affect macc1-induced cell motility and proliferation .
conclusion in summary , the identification of coding macc1 snps in primary colorectal tumors does not improve the prediction for metastasis formation or for patients ' survival compared to macc1 expression analysis alone .
the ct genotype ( rs975263 ) might be associated with a reduced survival for younger colon cancer patients in early stages .
however , further studies with larger sample sizes are needed .
breast cancer includes high number of molecular entities targetable by specific agents .
in this study , array cgh and pik3ca/akt1 mutations were used to drive patients into targeted therapy .
a prospective molecular analysis was offered to metastatic breast cancer patients for whom samples were collected prospectively or retrospectively either from frozen or paraffin-embedded tissue .
analyses were performed using array cgh ( agilent platform ) and pik3ca ( exon 10 and 21 ) and akt1 mutations were explored by standard sanger sequencing .
one hundred and eight patients were included .
good quality cgh was obtained in 79% cases and was better for frozen samples .
genomic alterations were identified in 50% of patients including 11 pik3ca and 8 akt1 mutations .
eighteen treatments ( 17 patients ) were administered according to their molecular profile with evidence of activity in nine .
reasons for not providing a genomic-driven treatment included absence of progressive disease ( 38% ) , investigator's choice ( 9% ) , rapid pd ( 19% ) , and no drug access ( 21% ) .
array cgh correctly identified her2 status in 97% cases ; failures were related to low % of tumour cells .
our study showed that array cgh is feasible in the context of daily practice and , in combination with pik3ca/akt1 mutations , identifies a significant number of actionable molecular alterations that allow driving patients into specific targeted agents .
background : to quantify tumour angiogenesis , microvessel density ( mvd ) has been widely used .
we here present a novel angiogenesis marker , microvessel proliferation ( mvp ) , based on dual immunohistochemical staining of nestin and ki-67 .
immature endothelial cells express nestin , and when co-expressed with the proliferation marker ki-67 , the number of proliferating immature blood vessels can be measured .
materials and methods : microvessel proliferation was evaluated in 178 breast cancer samples and estimated by vascular proliferation index ( vpi ) , the ratio between the number of vessels containing proliferating endothelial cells and the total number of immature vessels .
results : high vpi was strongly associated with several markers of aggressive breast cancer , such as negative oestrogen receptor ( er ) status ( p=0.003 ) , high tumour cell proliferation by ki-67 ( p=0.004 ) , high p53 expression ( p=0.001 ) , and five profiles for the basal-like phenotype ( odds ratios ( or ) ; range 3.4-6.3 ) .
also , high vpi was significantly associated with interval detected breast cancer compared with screening detected lesions ( p&lt;0.0005 ) , and adverse outcome in univariate and multivariate survival analysis ( p=0.034 and p=0.022 , respectively ) .
conclusion : microvessel proliferation is a novel marker of ongoing angiogenesis and was associated with aggressive tumour features , basal-like phenotypes , interval presentation , and prognosis in this series of breast cancer .
liver cancer , predominantly hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) , represents a complex and fatal malignancy driven primarily by oxidative stress and inflammation .
due to dismal prognosis and limited therapeutic intervention , chemoprevention has emerged as a viable approach to reduce the morbidity and mortality of hcc .
pomegranate fruit is a rich source of phytochemicals endowed with potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties .
we previously reported that pomegranate phytochemicals inhibit diethylnitrosamine ( dena)-initiated hepatocarcinogenesis in rats though nuclear factor e2-related factor 2 ( nrf2)-mediated antioxidant mechanisms .
since nrf2 also acts as a key mediator of the nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-b)-regulated inflammatory pathway , our present study investigated the anti-inflammatory mechanisms of a pomegranate emulsion ( pe ) during dena-induced rat hepatocarcinogenesis .
rats were administered with pe ( 1 or 10 g/kg ) 4 weeks before and 18 weeks following dena initiation .
there was a significant increase in hepatic expressions of inducible nitric oxide synthase , 3-nitrotyrosine , heat shock protein 70 and 90 , cyclooxygenase-2 and nf-b in dena-exposed rat livers .
pe dose-dependently suppressed all aforementioned elevated inflammatory markers .
a conspicuous finding of this study involves lack of cardiotoxicity of pe as assessed by monitoring cardiac function using noninvasive echocardiography .
our results provide substantial evidence that suppression of the inflammatory cascade through modulation of nf-b signaling pathway may represent a novel mechanism of liver tumor inhibitory effects of pe against experimental hepatocarcinogenesis .
data presented here coupled with those of our earlier study underline the importance of simultaneously targeting two interconnected molecular circuits , namely , nrf2-mediated redox signaling and nf-b-regulated inflammatory pathway , by pomegranate phytoconstituents to achieve chemoprevention of hcc .
bioenergetic profiling of tumors is a new challenge of cancer research and medicine as therapies are currently being developed .
meanwhile , methodological means must be proposed to gather information on tumor metabolism in order to adapt these potential therapies to the bioenergetic specificities of tumors .
studies performed on tumors and cancer cell lines have shown that cancer cells bioenergetics is highly variable .
this profile changes with microenvironmental conditions ( eg. substrate availability ) , the oncogenes activated ( and the tumor suppressors inactivated ) and the interaction with the stroma ( i.e. reverse warburg effect ) .
here , we assessed the power of metabolic footprinting ( mfp ) to unravel the bioenergetics and associated anabolic changes induced by three oncogenes , c-myc , klf4 and oct1 .
the mfp approach provides a quantitative analysis of the metabolites secreted and consumed by cancer cells .
we used ultra performance liquid chromatography for quantifying the amino acid uptake and secretion .
to investigate the potential oncogene-mediated alterations in mitochondrial metabolism , we measured oxygen consumption rate and atp production as well as the glucose uptake and lactate release .
our findings show that c-myc deficiency initiates the warburg effect along with a reduction of mitochondrial respiration .
klf4 deficiency also stimulated glycolysis , albeit without cellular respiration impairment .
in contrast , oct1 deficiency reduced glycolysis and enhanced oxidative phosphorylation efficiency .
mfp revealed that c-myc , klf4 and oct1 altered amino acid metabolism with specific patterns .
we identified isoleucine , -aminoadipic acid and gaba ( -aminoisobutyric acid ) as biomarkers related .
our findings establish the impact of oct1 , klf4 and c-myc on cancer bioenergetics and evidence a link between oncosecretomics and cellular bioenergetics profile .
colorectal tumors are continuously exposed to an inflammatory environment , which together with mitogenic signals sustain several cancer hallmarks .
nuclear factor-kappa b ( nfb ) is a major regulator of inflammation and variation in nfb-associated genes could potentially be used as biomarkers to identify patients with increased risk of colorectal cancer ( crc ) development , and/or a rapidly progressing disease .
in this study , 348 crc cases and 806 randomly selected healthy individuals from southeastern sweden were examined with regard to seven polymorphisms in nfb pathway-associated genes .
log-rank-tests and cox proportional hazard regression analysis examined the association between the polymorphisms and crc-specific survival , whereas chi-square tests and logistic regression analysis were used to test for associations between the polymorphisms and crc susceptibility .
gene expression and loss of heterozygosity analyses of tnfaip3 were carried out in a subset of tumors to assess its role as a tumor suppressor in crc .
heterozygous and polymorphic tnfaip3 ( rs6920220 ) , heterozygous nlrp3 ( q705k ) and polymorphic nfb -94 attg ins/del genotypes were found to be associated with poorer survival in patients diagnosed with invasive crc ( ahr = 5.2 , 95% ci : 2.5-10.9 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
tnfaip3 mrna levels were significantly decreased in tumors compared with adjacent non-neoplastic mucosa ( p &lt ; 0.0001 ) and loss of heterozygosity of 6q23.3 ( tnfaip3 ) was detected in 17% of cases , whereas only 2.5% of the investigated specimens displayed tnfaip3 gene mutations .
we propose that tnfaip3 ( rs6920220 ) , nlrp3 ( q705k ) and nfb -94 attg ins/del polymorphisms are associated with poor survival in patients with advanced crc and may be used as prognostic markers .
experimental results indicate that tnfaip3 may act as a tumor suppressor in crc .
interleukin-23 ( il-23 ) plays an essential role in the mucosal immune system .
it has been suggested that il-23 is able to induce carcinogenesis as well as inflammation and a recent study revealed that il-23r is expressed in colorectal carcinoma cells .
however , neither the differences in the il-23r expression among the patients nor the concrete functions of il-23 in colorectal carcinoma cells have been revealed .
the aim of the present study was to examine the characteristics of il-23r expression in colorectal carcinoma and the direct effects of il-23 on colorectal cancer cells .
we examined the il-23r expression in human colorectal cancer tissue samples by immunohistochemistry .
cell proliferation and invasion assays under il-23 stimulation were performed using cultured cells derived from colorectal cancer .
elisa and real-time pcr were used to evaluate the transforming growth factor ( tgf)- production due to il-23 stimulation .
all of the tnm stage iv patients were positive for il-23r .
il-23r expression in the carcinoma tissue was also relatively high at the deepest point of invasion in certain cases .
the proliferative and invasive activities and/or tgf- production of dld-1 cells increased by il-23 stimulation , whereas no change was observed in the activities of mip101 and km12c cells .
il-23 directly enhanced the malignancy of the colon carcinoma cells .
an autocrine mechanism via tgf- production may underlie these effects .
il-23 is therefore a potential target for cancer immunotherapy .
however , the homogeneity in il-23r expression and the effects of il-23 on colorectal carcinoma cells should be considered .
background to investigate the dynamics of inter- and intratumoral molecular alterations during tumor progression in recurrent gliomas .
methodology/principal findings to address intertumoral heterogeneity we investigated non-microdissected tumor tissue of 106 gliomas representing 51 recurrent tumors .
to address intratumoral heterogeneity a set of 16 gliomas representing 7 tumor pairs with at least one recurrence , and 4 single mixed gliomas were investigated by microdissection of distinct oligodendroglial and astrocytic tumor components .
all tumors and tumor components were analyzed for allelic loss of 1p/19q ( loh 1p/19q ) , for tp53- mutations and for r132 mutations in the idh1 gene .
the investigation of non-microdissected tumor tissue revealed clonality in 75% ( 38/51 ) .
aberrant molecular alterations upon recurrence were detected in 25% ( 13/51). 64% ( 9/14 ) of these were novel and associated with tumor progression .
loss of previously detected alterations was observed in 36% ( 5/14 ) .
one tumor pair ( 1/14 ; 7% ) was significant for both .
intratumoral clonality was detected in 57% ( 4/7 ) of the microdissected tumor pairs and in 75% ( 3/4 ) of single microdissected tumors. 43% ( 3/7 ) of tumor pairs and one single tumor ( 25% ) revealed intratumoral heterogeneity .
while intratumoral heterogeneity affected both the tp53- mutational status and the loh1p/19q status , all tumors with intratumoral heterogeneity shared the r132 idh1- mutation as a common feature in both their microdissected components .
conclusions/significance the majority of recurrent gliomas are of monoclonal origin .
however , the detection of divertive tumor cell clones in morphological distinct tumor components sharing idh1- mutations as early event may provide insight into the tumorigenesis of true mixed gliomas .
the tumor suppressor gene p53 has been implicated in the regulation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) and tumor metastasis by regulating microrna ( mirna ) expression .
here , we report that mutant p53 exerts oncogenic functions and promotes emt in endometrial cancer ( ec ) by directly binding to the promoter of mir-130b ( a negative regulator of zeb1 ) and inhibiting its transcription .
we transduced p53 mutants into p53-null ec cells , profiled the mirna expression by mirna microarray and identified mir-130b as a potential target of mutant p53 .
ectopic expression of p53 mutants repressed the expression of mir-130b and triggered zeb1-dependent emt and cancer cell invasion .
loss of an endogenous p53 mutation increased the expression of mir-130b , which resulted in reduced zeb1 expression and attenuation of the emt phenotype .
furthermore , re-expression of mir-130b suppressed mutant p53-induced emt and zeb1 expression .
importantly , the expression of mir-130 was significantly reduced in ec tissues , and patients with higher expression levels of mir-130b survived longer .
these data provide a novel understanding of the roles of p53 gain-of-function mutations in accelerating tumor progression and metastasis through modulation of the mir-130b-zeb1 axis .
background agricultural products and by products provide the primary materials for a variety of technological applications in diverse industrial sectors .
agro-industrial wastes , such as cotton and curaua fibers , are used to prepare nanofibers for use in thermoplastic films , where they are combined with polymeric matrices , and in biomedical applications such as tissue engineering , amongst other applications .
the development of products containing nanofibers offers a promising alternative for the use of agricultural products , adding value to the chains of production .
however , the emergence of new nanotechnological products demands that their risks to human health and the environment be evaluated .
this has resulted in the creation of the new area of nanotoxicology , which addresses the toxicological aspects of these materials .
purpose and methods contributing to these developments , the present work involved a genotoxicological study of different nanofibers , employing chromosomal aberration and comet assays , as well as cytogenetic and molecular analyses , to obtain preliminary information concerning nanofiber safety .
the methodology consisted of exposure of allium cepa roots , and animal cell cultures ( lymphocytes and fibroblasts ) , to different types of nanofibers .
negative controls , without nanofibers present in the medium , were used for comparison .
results the nanofibers induced different responses according to the cell type used .
in plant cells , the most genotoxic nanofibers were those derived from green , white , and brown cotton , and curaua , while genotoxicity in animal cells was observed using nanofibers from brown cotton and curaua .
an important finding was that ruby cotton nanofibers did not cause any significant dna breaks in the cell types employed .
conclusion this work demonstrates the feasibility of determining the genotoxic potential of nanofibers derived from plant cellulose to obtain information vital both for the future usage of these materials in agribusiness and for an understanding of their environmental impacts .
22rv1 is a common prostate cancer cell line used in xenograft mouse experiments as well as in vitro cell culture assays to study aspects of prostate cancer tumorigenesis .
recently , this cell line was shown to harbor multiple copies of a gammaretrovirus , called xmrv , integrated in its genome .
while the original prostate cancer xenograft cwr22 is free of any retrovirus , subsequently generated cell lines 22rv1 and cwr-r1 , carry this virus and additionally shed infectious gammaretroviral particles in their supernatant .
although xmrv most likely was generated by recombination events in cell culture this virus has been demonstrated to infect human cells in vitro and 22rv1 as well as cwr-r1 cells are now considered biosafety 2 reagents .
here , we demonstrate that 22rv1 cells with reduced retroviral transcription show reduced tumor angiogenesis and increased necrosis of the primary tumor derived from xenografted cells in scid mice when compared to the parental cell line .
the presence of xmrv transcripts significantly increases secretion of osteopontin ( opn ) , cxcl14 , il13 and timp2 in 22rv1 cells .
furthermore , these data are supported by in vitro cell invasion and differentiation assays .
collectively , our data suggest that the presence of xmrv transcripts at least partially contributes to 22rv1 characteristics observed in vitro and in vivo with regard to migration , invasion and tumor angiogenesis .
we propose that data received with 22rv1 cells or equivalent cells carrying xenotropic gammaretroviruses should be carefully controlled including other prostate cancer cell lines tested for viral sequences .
metastatic cancer is extremely difficult to treat , and the presence of metastases greatly reduces a cancer patient's likelihood of long-term survival .
the zeb1 transcriptional repressor promotes metastasis through downregulation of micrornas ( mirs ) that are strong inducers of epithelial differentiation and inhibitors of stem cell factors .
given that each mir can target multiple genes with diverse functions , we posited that the prometastatic network controlled by zeb1 extends beyond these processes .
we tested this hypothesis using a mouse model of human lung adenocarcinoma metastasis driven by zeb1 , human lung carcinoma cells , and human breast carcinoma cells .
transcriptional profiling studies revealed that zeb1 controls the expression of numerous oncogenic and tumor-suppressive mirs , including mir-34a .
ectopic expression of mir-34a decreased tumor cell invasion and metastasis , inhibited the formation of promigratory cytoskeletal structures , suppressed activation of the rho gtpase family , and regulated a gene expression signature enriched in cytoskeletal functions and predictive of outcome in human lung adenocarcinomas .
we identified several mir-34a target genes , including arhgap1 , which encodes a rho gtpase activating protein that was required for tumor cell invasion .
these findings demonstrate that zeb1 drives prometastatic actin cytoskeletal remodeling by downregulating mir-34a expression and provide a compelling rationale to develop mir-34a as a therapeutic agent in lung cancer patients .
identifying genomic alterations driving breast cancer is complicated by tumor diversity and genetic heterogeneity .
relevant mouse models are powerful for untangling this problem because such heterogeneity can be controlled .
inbred chaos3 mice exhibit high levels of genomic instability leading to mammary tumors that have tumor gene expression profiles closely resembling mature human mammary luminal cell signatures .
we genomically characterized mammary adenocarcinomas from these mice to identify cancer-causing genomic events that overlap common alterations in human breast cancer .
chaos3 tumors underwent recurrent copy number alterations ( cnas ) , particularly deletion of the ras inhibitor neurofibromin 1 ( nf1 ) in nearly all cases .
these overlap with human cnas including nf1 , which is deleted or mutated in 27.7% of all breast carcinomas .
chaos3 mammary tumor cells exhibit ras hyperactivation and increased sensitivity to ras pathway inhibitors .
these results indicate that spontaneous nf1 loss can drive breast cancer .
this should be informative for treatment of the significant fraction of patients whose tumors bear nf1 mutations .
the metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 , malat1 , is a long non-coding rna ( lncrna ) that has been discovered as a marker for lung cancer metastasis .
it is highly abundant , its expression is strongly regulated in many tumor entities including lung adenocarcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma as well as physiological processes , and it is associated with many rna binding proteins and highly conserved throughout evolution .
the nuclear transcript malat-1 has been functionally associated with gene regulation and alternative splicing and its regulation has been shown to impact proliferation , apoptosis , migration and invasion .
here , we have developed a human and a mouse knockout system to study the loss-of-function phenotypes of this important ncrna .
in human tumor cells , malat1 expression was abrogated using zinc finger nucleases .
unexpectedly , the quantitative loss of malat1 did neither affect proliferation nor cell cycle progression nor nuclear architecture in human lung or liver cancer cells .
moreover , genetic loss of malat1 in a knockout mouse model did not give rise to any obvious phenotype or histological abnormalities in malat1-null compared with wild-type animals .
thus , loss of the abundant nuclear long ncrna malat1 is compatible with cell viability and normal development .
fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 ( flt3 ) normally functions in the survival/proliferation of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells , but its constitutive activation by internal tandem duplication ( itd ) mutations correlates with a poor prognosis in aml .
the development of flt3 tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( tki ) is a promising strategy , but resistance that arises during the course of treatment caused by secondary mutations within the mutated gene itself poses a significant challenge .
in an effort to predict flt3 resistance mutations that might develop in patients , we used saturation mutagenesis of flt3/itd followed by selection of transfected cells in flt3 tki .
we identified f621l , a627p , f691l and y842c mutations in flt3/itd that confer varying levels of resistance to flt3 tki .
western blotting confirmed that some flt3 tki were ineffective at inhibiting flt3 autophosphorylation and signaling through map kinase , stat5 and akt in some mutants .
balb/c mice transplanted with the flt3/itd y842c mutation confirmed resistance to sorafenib in vivo but not to lestaurtinib .
these results indicate a growing number of flt3 mutations that are likely to be encountered in patients .
such knowledge , combined with known remaining sensitivity to other flt3 tki , will be important to establish as secondary drug treatments that can be substituted when these mutants are encountered .
increasing evidence shows that estrogens are involved in lung cancer proliferation and progression , and most human lung tumors express estrogen receptor  ( er ) as well as aromatase .
to determine if the aromatase inhibitor anastrozole prevents development of lung tumors induced by a tobacco carcinogen , alone or in combination with the er antagonist fulvestrant , ovariectomized female mice received treatments with the tobacco carcinogen 4-(methylnitrosoamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone ( nnk ) along with daily supplements of androstenedione , the substrate for aromatase .
placebo , anastrozole and/or fulvestrant were administered in both an initiation and a promotion protocol of lung tumorigenesis .
the combination of fulvestrant and anastrozole given during nnk exposure resulted in significantly fewer nnk-induced lung tumors ( mean = 0.5 ) compared with placebo ( mean = 4.6 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) , fulvestrant alone ( mean = 3.4 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) or anastrozole alone ( mean = 2.8 , p = 0.002 ) .
a significantly lower ki67 cell proliferation index was also observed compared with single agent and control treatment groups .
beginning antiestrogen treatment after nnk exposure , when preneoplastic lesions had already formed , also yielded maximum antitumor effects with the combination .
aromatase expression was found mainly in macrophages infiltrating preneoplastic and tumorous areas of the lungs , whereas er was found in both macrophages and tumor cells .
antiestrogens , especially in combination , effectively inhibited tobacco carcinogen-induced murine lung tumorigenesis and may have application for lung cancer prevention .
an important source of estrogen synthesis may be inflammatory cells that infiltrate the lungs in response to carcinogens , beginning early in the carcinogenesis process .
er expressed by inflammatory and neoplastic epithelial cells in the lung may signal in response to local estrogen production .
a glycolytic profile unifies a group of pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas ( pheos/pgls ) with distinct underlying gene defects , including von hippel-lindau ( vhl ) and succinate dehydrogenase b ( sdhb ) mutations .
nevertheless , their tumor aggressiveness is distinct : pheos/pgls metastasize rarely in vhl- , but frequently in sdhb-patients .
to date , the molecular mechanisms causing the more aggressive phenotype in sdhb-pheos/pgls remain largely unknown .
recently , however , an excellent model to study aggressive pheos ( mouse tumor tissue ( mtt ) cells ) has been developed from mouse pheo cells ( mpc ) .
we employed this model for a proteomics based approach to identify changes characteristic for tumor aggressiveness , which we then explored in a homogeneous set of human sdhb- and vhl-pheos/pgls .
the increase of glucose transporter 1 in vhl , and of hexokinase 2 in vhl and sdhb , confirmed their glycolytic profile .
in agreement with the cell model and in support of decoupling of glycolysis , the krebs cycle and oxidative phosphorylation ( oxphos ) , sdhb tumors showed increased lactate dehydrogenase levels .
in sdhb-pgls oxphos complex activity was increased at complex iii and , as expected , decreased at complex ii .
moreover , protein and mrna expression of all tested oxphos-related genes were higher in sdhb- than in vhl-derived tumors .
although there was no direct evidence for increased reactive oxygen species production , elevated superoxide dismutase 2 expression may reflect elevated oxidative stress in sdhb-derived pheos/pgls .
for the first time , we show that despite dysfunction in complex ii and evidence for a glycolytic phenotype , the warburg effect does not seem to fully apply to sdhb-pheos/pgls with respect to decreased oxphos .
in addition , we present evidence for increased ldha and sod2 expression in sdhb-pheos/pgls , proteins that have been proposed as promising therapeutic targets in other cancers .
this study provides new insight into pathogenic mechanisms in aggressive human pheos/pgls , which may lead to identifying new diagnostic and prognostic markers in the near future .
background to assess the potential mechanisms that may underlie increased local failure in triple negative ( tn ) breast cancers , an analysis was performed of the risk of residual carcinoma after lumpectomy with correlation to pathologic factors , including molecular phenotype .
methods a review of pathologic specimens was performed for women with invasive breast cancer treated with lumpectomy followed by reexcision .
data were collected on age ; tumor size , grade , and nodal stage ; estrogen receptor , progesterone receptor , and human endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( her2 ) ; extensive intraductal component ; lymphovascular invasion ; margins ; and reexcision findings .
univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to evaluate for associations between pathologic features of the lumpectomy specimen and reexcision findings .
molecular phenotypes were defined by conventionally used immunohistochemical pattern .
results data were collected on 369 patients with breast cancer .
the median age was 57 years , median tumor size was 1.5 cm , 36% had positive margins , 32% had positive lymph nodes , 73.5% had the luminal a subtype , 9.5% had the luminal b subtype , 4.5% were her2-enriched , and 12.5% were tn .
overall , 32% of patients had invasive cancer in their reexcision specimens , and 51% of those with the tn subtype had residual invasive disease on reexcision compared with 30% to 31% for other subtypes .
on univariate analysis , age , tumor size , margin status , lymphovascular invasion , nodal status , and tn subtype were associated with elevated risk of residual invasive cancer .
on multivariate analysis using a forward stepwise model , tn subtype maintained significance , with an odds ratio of 3.28 ( p = .002 ) .
conclusion tn subtype has a statistically significant association with an increased risk of residual tumor .
this suggests the putative increase in the risk of local failure in tn patients may be related to increased residual tumor burden .
the role of energy deregulation and altered/adapted metabolism in tumor cells is an increasingly important issue in understanding cancer .
hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma ( hlrcc ) is an aggressive form of rcc characterized by germline mutation of fumarate hydratase ( fh ) , followed by somatic loss of the remaining wild-type allele and known to be a highly metastatic and lethal malignancy compared to other rccs .
the intrinsic loss of normal tricarboxylic acid ( tca ) cycle presumably aids tumorigenesis due to the necessary metabolic alterations required and the enforced dependence on glycolysis derived energy , mimicking the warburg effect .
thus , there is considerable utility in establishing a preclinical cell model from these tumors to study energy metabolism deregulation , as well as developing new targeted therapeutic approaches for tca cycle enzyme-deficient cancers .
here , we describe a new immortalized cell line , uok268 , derived from a patient's primary hlrcc-associated kidney cancer .
this represents the first primary renal cell line to model tca cycle gene loss and provides a perfect partner cell line to our previously described metastasis-derived hlrcc-associated cell line , uok262 .
we identified a novel germline fh missense mutation , p.his192asp , and the subsequent loss of heterozygosity in uok268 .
the uok268 cell line expressed mutant fh protein , which localized to the mitochondria , but with loss of almost all catalytic activity .
the uok268 cells had severely compromised oxidative phosphorylation and increased glycolytic flux .
ingenuity pathways analysis of human mitochondria-focused cdna microarray ( hmitchip3 ) gene chip data confirmed the altered mrna expression patterns of genes involved in several important pathways , such as lipid metabolism , apoptosis , and energy production/glycolysis .
uok268 provides a unique model of a primary cell line demonstrating an enforced , irreversible warburg effect and , combined with uok262 , provides a unique invitro preclinical model for studying the bioenergetics of the warburg effect in human cancer .
focal adhesion kinase ( fak ) is an important mediator of extracellular matrix integrin signaling , cell motility , cell proliferation and cell survival .
increased fak expression is observed in a variety of solid human tumors and increased fak expression and activity frequently correlate with metastatic disease and poor prognosis .
herein we identify mir-7 as a direct regulator of fak expression. mir-7 expression is decreased in malignant versus normal breast tissue and its expression correlates inversely with metastasis in human breast cancer patients .
forced expression of mir-7 produced increased e-cadherin and decreased fibronectin and vimentin expression in breast cancer cells .
the levels of mir-7 expression was positively correlated with e-cadherin mrna and negatively correlated with vimentin mrna levels in breast cancer samples .
forced expression of mir-7 in aggressive breast cancer cell lines suppressed tumor cell monolayer proliferation , anchorage independent growth , three-dimensional growth in matrigel , migration and invasion .
conversely , inhibition of mir-7 in the hbl-100 mammary epithelial cell line promoted cell proliferation and anchorage independent growth .
rescue of fak expression reversed mir-7 suppression of migration and invasion. mir-7 also inhibited primary breast tumor development , local invasion and metastatic colonization of breast cancer xenografts .
thus , mir-7 expression is decreased in metastatic breast cancer , correlates with the level of epithelial differentiation of the tumor and inhibits metastatic progression .
both the deregulation of micrornas and epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) are emerging as important factors in non-small-cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) .
here , mir-133b was found to be associated with tumor stage , the extent of regional lymph node involvement , stage , visceral pleura or vessel invasion and egfr mrna expression in chinese patients with nsclc .
bioinformatic analysis and luciferase reporter assay revealed that mir-133b can interact specifically with the 3'-utr of egfr mrna .
functionally , mir-133b transfection showed regulatory activity in translationally repressing egfr mrna .
moreover , mir-133b transfection may modulate apoptosis , invasion and sensitivity to egfr-tki through the egfr signaling pathways , especially in egfr-addicted nsclc cells .
taken together , our findings show that mir-133b can inhibit cell growth of nsclc through targeting egfr and regulating its downstream signaling pathway .
this finding has important implications for the development of targeted therapeutics for a number of egfr-addicted cancers .
objective .
the present study was performed to investigate the effect of n-desulfated heparin on basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) expression , tumor angiogenesis and metastasis of gastric carcinoma .
methods .
human gastric cancer sgc-7901 tissues were orthotopically implanted into the stomach of nod scid mice .
twenty mice were randomly divided into two groups which received either intravenous injection of 0.9% nacl solution ( normal saline group ) or 10mg/kg n-desulfated heparin ( n-desulfated heparin group ) twice weekly for three weeks .
in vitro , human gastric carcinoma sgc-7901 cells were treated with n-desulfated heparin in different concentration ( 0.1mg/ml , 1mg/ml , n-desulfated heparin group ) , and treated with medium ( control group ) .
results .
in vivo , the tumor metastasis rates were 9/10 in normal saline group and 2/10 in n-desulfated heparin group ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
the intratumoral microvessel density was higher in normal saline group than in n-desulfated heparin group ( p &lt ; 0.05). bfgf expression in gastric tissue was inhibited by n-desulfated heparin ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
there was no bleeding in n-desulfated heparin group .
in vitro , n-desulfated heparin inhibited significantly bfgf protein and mrna expression of gastric carcinoma cells ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
conclusions .
n-desulfated heparin can inhibit the metastasis of gastric cancer through inhibiting tumor bfgf expression and tumor angiogenesis with no obvious anticoagulant activity .
objectives lymph node metastasis is among the most important prognostic factors for patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma after curative esophagectomy ; however , the extent of lymphadenectomy is still controversial .
the objective of the present study was to determine the frequency of lymphatic metastases and to study the pattern of lymph node metastasis in a large study population .
methods the data from 1361 patients with thoracic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma who underwent curative r0 esophagectomy were retrospectively examined .
logistic regression analysis was used to identify the factors associated with lymph node metastasis .
results of the 1361 patients , 714 ( 52.5% ) were found to have lymph node metastasis .
the frequency of lymph node metastasis increased as the tumor invasion increased .
paratracheal nodes were the most frequent metastasis nodes ( 15.9% ) .
the frequency of lymph node metastasis was 9.8% in the neck , 18.0% in the upper mediastinum , 18.9% in the middle mediastinum , 11.8% in the lower mediastinum , and 28.4% in the abdomen .
of these 714 patients , 424 ( 31.2% ) presented with 1 field involvement , 255 ( 18.7% ) with 2 fields , and 35 ( 2.6% ) with 3 fields involvement .
logistic regression analysis revealed tumor length ( p&lt;.001 ) , tumor invasion ( p&lt;.001 ) , tumor differentiation ( p=.003 ) , and lymphovascular invasion ( p&lt;.001 ) were risk factors for lymph node metastasis .
tumor location ( p&lt;.001 ) , tumor invasion ( p=.003 ) , lymphovascular invasion ( p=.004 ) , and paratracheal lymph node involvement ( p=.002 ) were identified as risk factors for cervical lymph node metastasis .
conclusions metastases were more frequent in the abdomen than in the neck .
total mediastinal and upper abdominal lymphadenectomy should be carefully conducted .
certain factors , such as tumor location , depth of tumor invasion , lymphovascular invasion , and paratracheal lymph node involvement , might be helpful in determining the need to perform cervical lymphadenectomy in individual patients .
mdscs and tregs play an essential role in the immunosuppressive networks that contribute to tumor-immune evasion .
the mechanisms by which tumors promote the expansion and/or function of these suppressive cells and the cross-talk between mdsc and treg remain incompletely defined .
previous reports have suggested that mdsc may contribute to treg induction in cancer .
herein , we provide evidence that tumor-induced gr-mdscs , endowed with the potential of suppressing conventional t lc , surprisingly impair tgf-1-mediated generation of cd4(+)cd25(+)foxp3(+) itregs .
furthermore , gr-mdscs impede the proliferation of ntregs without , however , affecting foxp3 expression .
suppression of itreg differentiation from nave cd4(+) cells by gr-mdsc occurs early in the polarization process , requires inhibition of early t cell activation , and depends on ros and ido but does not require arginase 1 , inos , no , cystine/cysteine depletion , pd-1 and pd-l1 signaling , or cox-2 .
these findings thus indicate that gr-mdscs from tb hosts have the unanticipated ability to restrict immunosuppressive tregs .
background cholangiocarcinoma , a type of malignant tumor , originates from epithelial cells of the bile duct .
perineural invasion is common path for cholangiocarcinoma metastasis , and it is highly correlated with postoperative recurrence and poor prognosis .
it has been reported that muscarinic acetylcholine receptor m3 ( machr m3 ) is widely expressed in digestive tract cancer , and may play an important role in the proliferation , differentiation , transformation and carcinogenesis of tumors .
this study was to explore the effect of machr m3 on the growth of cholangiocarcinoma cells in vitro and provide a new approach to the pathogenesis and treatment of cholangiocarcinoma .
methods streptavidin-biotin complex immunohistochemistry was carried out to assess the expression of machr m3 in surgical specimens of cholangiocarcinomas ( 40 cases ) and normal bile duct tissues ( 9 ) , as well as to investigate nerve infiltration .
the cholangiocarcinoma cells were treated with different concentrations of selective m-receptor agonist pilocarpine and m-receptor blocker atropine sulfate to induce changes in cell proliferation .
the experimental data were analyzed by the chi-square test .
results the strongly-positive expression rate of machr m3 was much higher in poorly-differentiated ( 69% , 9/13 ) than in well- and moderately-differentiated cholangiocarcinomas ( 30% , 8/27 ) ( x2=5.631 , p&lt;0.05 ) .
the strongly-positive machr m3 expression rate in hilar cholangiocarcinoma ( 50% , 14/28 ) was higher than that in cholangiocarcinomas from the middle and lower common bile duct ( 25% , 3/12 ) ( x2=2.148 , p&lt;0.05 ) .
cholangiocarcinomas with distant metastasis had a strongly-positive expression rate ( 75% , 9/12 ) , which was much higher than those without distant metastasis ( 29% , 8/28 ) ( x2=7.410 , p&lt;0.01 ) .
the absorbance value in the pilocarpine+atropine group was significantly higher than the corresponding value in the pilocarpine group .
conclusions the expression of machr m3 is influenced by the extent of differentiation , distant metastasis and the site of cholangiocarcinoma .
it also plays a key role in the proliferation and metastasis of cholangiocarcinoma .
colorectal cancer represents one of the most challenging diseases .
increasing evidence indicates that aberrant expression of micrornas ( mirnas ) is related to pathogenesis of colorectal cancer .
cancer cells reprogram metabolic pathways to sustain higher proliferation rates .
whether mechanisms underlying the role of mirna in colorectal cancer are involved in metabolic reprogramming and the mechanisms through which mirnas alter cancer metabolism are as yet unknown .
herein , we show that mir-124 , mir-137 and mir-340 are associated with poor prognosis of colorectal cancer .
expression of these mirnas inhibits the growth of colorectal cancer cells .
pkm ( pyruvate kinase isozyme ) alternative splicing proteins ( ptb1/hnrnapa1/hnrnapa2 ) , which control the inclusion of exon 9 ( pkm1 ) or exon 10 ( pkm2 ) , are targeted by mir-124 , mir-137 and mir-340 .
consequently , mir-124 , mir-137 and mir-340 switch pkm gene expression from pkm2 to pkm1 .
high ratios of pkm1/pkm2 inhibit the glycolysis rate , but elevate the glucose flux into oxidative phosphorylation .
these results demonstrate that mirnas ( mir-124 , mir-137 and mir-340 ) impair colorectal cancer growth by counteracting the warburg effect due to regulating alternative splicing of the pkm gene .
mesenchymal stem cells ( mscs ) are generally used in tissue engineering , regenerative medicine and therapy for immune disorder disease .
mscs are also employed as drug carriers for tumor therapy due to their ability to migrate to tumor tissue .
however , due to the immunosuppressive function of mscs , the application of mscs in prostate cancer therapy remains limited .
in this study , we investigated the underlying mechanism by which mscs enable prostate cancer cells to escape from immune surveillance in the inflammatory microenvironment .
firstly , we demonstrated that compared with the control groups , mscs pretreated with il-1 effectively promoted the growth of the mouse prostate cancer cell line rm-1 invivo .
furthermore , when rm-1 prostate cancer cells were co-injected with mscs pretreated with il-1 , tumor incidence significantly increased in allogeneic recipients .
in addition , we investigated the mechanism through which mscs promote the ability of rm-1 cells to escape from immune injury .
the results revealed that il-1 led to the upregulation of tgf- in mscs .
the inflammatory cytokine-induced promotive effect of mscs on rm-1 cells in vivo was inhibited by tgf- sirna .
the results of our study suggest that inflammatory cytokines induce the immunosuppressive function of mscs which enables prostate cancer cells to escape from immune injury .
glioblastoma is one of the most lethal and common malignant human brain tumors , with aggressive proliferation and highly invasive properties .
honokiol derived from magnolia officinalis is able to cross the blood-brain barrier ( bbb ) and the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier ( bcsfb ) , suggesting a strong possibility that it could be an effective drug for the treatment of brain tumors , including glioblastoma .
thus , we investigated the effects of honokiol on the expression of adhesion molecules in tnf--stimulated endothelial cells , and cancer growth and invasion were determined in t98g human glioblastoma cells .
honokiol dose-dependently inhibited the expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 ( vcam-1 ) in human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( huvecs ) stimulated with tnf- for 6 h .
pretreatment with honokiol significantly reduced the adhesion of t98g cells to huvecs .
moreover , honokiol inhibited the invasion of t98g cells , suggesting that honokiol has an anti-metastatic effect .
in addition , honokiol increased the cytotoxicity of t98g cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner as assayed by mtt .
tunel assay showed that honokiol significantly induced apoptosis in t98g cells at doses of 10 m or more .
the induction of apoptotic cell death was mediated by the downregulation of the anti-apoptotic protein bcl-2 and the upregulation of the pro-apoptotic protein bax .
taken together , the results of this study suggest that honokiol exerts an anticancer effect by preventing metastasis and inducing apoptotic cell death of brain tumor cells .
the insulin-like growth factor ( igf ) pathway represents one of the most studied molecular regulatory networks in oncology .
clinical trials investigating the therapeutic value of anti-igf1 receptor ( igf1r ) therapies in cancer , including prostate cancer , are ongoing .
however , the multiple functions of the igf network in the prostate are not entirely known .
to elucidate the effects of igf and insulin ( ins ) on prostate cells , we stimulated prostate cancer ( pc3 , du145 , lncap , ducap ) and noncancerous prostate cells ( ep156t , rwpe-1 ) and observed differing responses : whereas cancer cells responded to igf and ins exposure by way of enhanced cell proliferation and glucose consumption , basal to luminal differentiation was induced in noncancerous cells .
the same diverse responses were observed when the growth factor receptors igf1r or insr were overexpressed .
down-regulation of igf1r or insr isoform a ( insra ) also inhibited only proliferation of cancer cells .
the proliferative response induced by the insr in cancer cells was mediated solely by the insra .
moreover we observed that the receptors of the igf network mutually influence their expression and exert redundant functions , thus underscoring the functional molecular network formed by igf , ins , igf1r , and insr .
collectively we found that both igf1r and insra have oncogenic effects in prostate cancer , but the igf network also has important physiological functions in the noncancerous prostate .
these data provide new insights into the biology of the igf network in the prostate , thereby facilitating the design and interpretation of clinical studies investigating igf1r targeting agents .
background although basal cell carcinoma ( bcc ) is the most common type of skin cancer , the incidence of metastasis is exceedingly low .
objective case presentation of a basal cell carcinoma arising on the dorsum of the foot with inguinal and pelvic lymph node metastases .
method case presentation with literature review .
result on the basis of our review of japanese literature , the risk factors for bcc metastasis are occurrence on the genitalia , diameter of more than 3 cm , deep invasion of tumor cells into extradermal structures , and infiltrative/morpheic histological type .
conclusion although metastasis from bcc is extremely rare , the prognosis of metastatic bcc is often poor .
careful follow-up is recommended in cases with high risk factors .
hesperetin , a flavonoid from citrus fruits , has several bioactivities such as anti-inflammatory , antihypertensive , antiatherogenic effects .
however , studies elucidating the role and the mechanism(s) of action of hesperetin in cervical cancer are sparse .
in this study , we investigated the mechanism of the antiproliferative and apoptotic actions exerted by hesperetin on human cervical cancer siha cells .
the viability of siha cells was evaluated using the mtt assay , apoptosis by acridine orange/ethidium bromide , propidium iodide , tunel assay , and annexin v-cy3 , cell cycle distribution and mitochondrial transmembrane potential using flow cytometry , and apoptotic marker genes using quantitative real-time pcr .
the treatment of siha cells with hesperetin ( ic(50,) 650m ) showed a marked concentration- and time-dependent inhibition of proliferation and induced the g2/m phase in a dose-dependent manner after 24h .
there was an attenuation of mitochondrial membrane potential with increased expression of caspase-3 , caspase-8 , caspase-9 , p53 , bax , and fas death receptor and its adaptor protein fas-associated death domain-containing protein ( fadd ) , indicating the participation of both death receptor- and mitochondria-related mechanisms .
furthermore , hesperetin-induced apoptosis was confirmed by tunel and annexin v-cy3 .
this study shows that hesperetin exhibits a potential anticancer activity against human cervical cancer cell lines in vitro through the reduction in cell viability and the induction of apoptosis .
altogether , these data sustain our contention that hesperetin has anticancer properties and merits further investigation as a potential therapeutic agent .
placental growth factor ( pgf ) is a key molecule in angiogenesis .
several studies have revealed an important role of pgf primarily in pathological conditions ( e.g. : ischaemia , tumour formation , cardiovascular diseases and inflammatory processes ) suggesting its use as a potential therapeutic agent .
however , to date , no information is available regarding the genetics of pgf variability .
furthermore , even though the effect of environmental factors ( e.g. : cigarette smoking ) on angiogenesis has been explored , no data on the influence of these factors on pgf levels have been reported so far .
here we have first investigated pgf variability in two cohorts focusing on non-genetic risk factors : a study sample from two isolated villages in the cilento region , south italy ( n=871 ) and a replication sample from the general danish population ( n=1,812 ) .
a significant difference in pgf mean levels was found between the two cohorts .
however , in both samples , we observed a strong correlation of pgf levels with ageing and sex , men displaying pgf levels significantly higher than women .
interestingly , smoking was also found to influence the trait in the two populations , although differently .
we have then focused on genetic risk factors .
the association between five single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snps ) located in the pgf gene and the plasma levels of the protein was investigated .
two polymorphisms ( rs11850328 and rs2268614 ) were associated with the pgf plasma levels in the cilento sample and these associations were strongly replicated in the danish sample .
these results , for the first time , support the hypothesis of the presence of genetic and environmental factors influencing pgf plasma variability .
curcumin ( diferuloylmethane ) is a polyphenol derived from the plant turmeric ( curcuma longa ) , which is commonly used as a spice .
although anti-carcinogenic , anti-oxidant , anti-inflammation , and anti-angiogenic properties have been reported , the effect of curcumin on breast cancer metastasis is unknown .
matrix metalloproteinase-9 ( mmp-9 ) is a major component in cancer cell invasion .
in this study , we investigated the inhibitory effect of curcumin on 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa)-induced mmp-9 expression and cell invasion and the molecular mechanisms involved in mcf-7 cells .
our results showed that curcumin inhibits tpa-induced mmp-9 expression and cell invasion through suppressing nf-b and ap-1 activation .
also , curcumin strongly repressed the tpa-induced phosphorylation of p38 and jnk and inhibited tpa-induced translocation of pkc from the cytosol to the membrane , but did not affect the translocation of pkc .
these results indicate that curcumin-mediated inhibition of tpa-induced mmp-9 expression and cell invasion involves the suppression of the pkc , mapk and nf-b/ap-1 pathway in mcf-7 cells .
curcumin may have potential value in restricting breast cancer metastasis .
background angiogenesis plays an important role in the progression of colorectal cancer ( crc ) .
studies have indicated vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) is the predominant angiogenic factor .
cyclin d1 ( ccnd1 ) induces production of vegf and is required for migration of blood vessels .
our aim was to determine the roles of ccnd1 and vegf overexpression in crc patients .
methods we analyzed clinicopathological features , vegf and ccnd1 expressions by immunohistochemical ( ihc ) staining in 100 stage i-iii crc patients ( 44 were postoperative relapsed ; 56 were postoperative non-relapsed ) to determine the correlation between clinicopathologic features and co-existence of ccnd1 and vegf .
furthermore , the clinical outcomes of co-existence of ccnd1 and vegf were investigated .
results multivariate analysis showed vascular invasion ( p = 0.019 ) , vegf overexpression ( p = 0.033 ) , and high postoperative serum carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) levels ( p = 0.022 ) were independent predictors of postoperative relapse .
co-existence of ccnd1 and vegf overexpression had significantly poorer disease-free survival rates ( p = 0.004 ) and overall survival rates ( p = 0.001 ) than other phenotypes .
conclusions co-existence of ccnd1 and vegf overexpression would potentially assist in tnm staging systems to predict the prognosis of these patients who would benefit from intensive follow-up and therapeutic programs .
cancer immunoediting is the process whereby immune cells protect against cancer formation by sculpting the immunogenicity of developing tumors .
although the full process depends on innate and adaptive immunity , it remains unclear whether innate immunity alone is capable of immunoediting .
to determine whether the innate immune system can edit tumor cells in the absence of adaptive immunity , we compared the incidence and immunogenicity of 3'methylcholanthrene-induced sarcomas in syngeneic wild-type , rag2(-/-) , and rag2(-/-)x c(-/-) mice .
we found that innate immune cells could manifest cancer immunoediting activity in the absence of adaptive immunity .
this activity required natural killer ( nk ) cells and interferon  ( ifn- ) , which mediated the induction of m1 macrophages .
m1 macrophages could be elicited by administration of cd40 agonists , thereby restoring editing activity in rag2(-/-)x c(-/-) mice .
our results suggest that in the absence of adaptive immunity , nk cell production of ifn- induces m1 macrophages , which act as important effectors during cancer immunoediting .
cellular senescence has emerged as a critical tumor suppressive mechanism in recent years , but relatively little is known about how senescence occurs .
here , we report that secreted frizzled-related protein 1 ( sfrp1 ) , a secreted antagonist of wnt signaling , is oversecreted upon cellular senescence caused by dna damage or oxidative stress .
sfrp1 is necessary for stress-induced senescence caused by these factors and is sufficient for the induction of senescence phenotypes .
we present evidence suggesting that sfrp1 functions as a secreted mediator of senescence through inhibition of wnt signaling and activation of the retinoblastoma ( rb ) pathway and that cancer-associated sfrp1 mutants are defective for senescence induction .
we show that sufficient concentrations of gold nanoparticles produced by an original synthesis method in emt-6 and ct-26 cancer cells make it possible to detect the presence , necrosis and proliferation of such cells after inoculation in live mice .
we first demonstrated that the nanoparticles do not interfere with the proliferation process .
then , we observed significant differences in the tumor evolution and the angiogenesis process after shallow and deep inoculation .
a direct comparison with pathology optical images illustrates the effectiveness of this approach .
the development of targeted therapies and immunotherapies has markedly advanced the treatment of metastasized melanoma .
while treatment with selective braf(v600e) inhibitors ( like vemurafenib or dabrafenib ) leads to high response rates but short response duration , ctla-4 blocking therapies induce sustained responses , but only in a limited number of patients .
the combination of these diametric treatment approaches may further improve survival , but pre-clinical data concerning this approach is limited .
we investigated , using tyr::creer(t2)pten(f-/-)braf(f-v600e/+) inducible melanoma mice , whether braf(v600e) inhibition can synergize with anti-ctla-4 mab treatment , focusing on the interaction between the braf(v600e) inhibitor plx4720 and the immune system .
while plx4720 treatment strongly decreased tumor growth , it did not induce cell death in braf(v600e)/pten(-/-) melanomas .
more strikingly , plx4720 treatment led to a decreased frequency of tumor-resident t cells , nk-cells , mdscs and macrophages , which could not be restored by the addition of anti-ctla-4 mab .
as this effect was not observed upon treatment of braf wild-type b16f10 tumors , we conclude that the decreased frequency of immune cells correlates to braf(v600e) inhibition in tumor cells and is not due to an off-target effect of plx4720 on immune cells .
furthermore , anti-ctla-4 mab treatment of inducible melanoma mice treated with plx4720 did not result in enhanced tumor control , while anti-ctla-4 mab treatment did improve the effect of tumor-vaccination in b16f10-inoculated mice .
our data suggest that vemurafenib may negatively affect the immune activity within the tumor .
therefore , the potential effect of targeted therapy on the tumor-microenvironment should be taken into consideration in the design of clinical trials combining targeted and immunotherapy .
background the presence of distant metastases from colorectal cancer ( crc ) does not preclude curative treatment .
early detection of pulmonary metastases at a potentially curable stage could improve survival .
the aim of the present study was to assess the prognostic significance of commonly reported clinicopathologic features to identify high-risk patients who would likely benefit from more intensive chest surveillance for pulmonary metastases .
material and method a total of 351 consecutive patients , with surgical stages i-iii colorectal cancer , who underwent curative resection at phramongkutklao hospital from 1999 to 2005 , were followed regularly according to the established guidelines with routine physical examination , serum carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) and colonoscopic surveillance .
imaging studies for detecting metastases were computed tomography ( ct ) , plain film radiography , and ultrasonograpy .
clinical and pathologic features were analyzed for their association with pulmonary metastasis .
results there were 145 patients who had been operated for longer than five years after curative intent surgery .
of these , nineteen patients were lost to follow-up or died from other causes that were unrelated to colorectal cancer .
pulmonary metastases were detected in 26 patients by either cxr or ct scan .
median time to pulmonary metastasis was 19 months ( 95 percent ci , 12-35 ) .
according to an univariate analysis , with log-rank test , identified four factors associated with pulmonary metastasis : tumor stage t4 , nodal stage n2 , elevation of serum cea &gt ; 3.4 ng/ml and presence of lymphovascular invasion(lvi) .
according to a multivariate analysis , with cox regression , found an elevation of serum cea &gt ; 3.4 ng/ml which was an independent factor that was significantly associated with pulmonary metastasis ( hazard ratio ( hr ) , 8.9 ; 95 percent ci , 3.6-22 ; p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
the present study revealed that 50 percent of patients who had more than one of these risk factors would eventually develop pulmonary metastases .
conclusion an elevation of serum cea &gt ; or = 3.4 ng/ml was found as an independent factor that was significantly associated with pulmonary metastasis whereas tumor stage t4 , nodal stage n2 and presence of lymphovascular invasion ( lvi ) were not independent clinicopathologic features associated with subsequent pulmonary metastases .
chest ct scan has greater sensitivity than chest radiography in detection of pulmonary metastasis and should be considered as an imaging study of choice for intensive chest surveillance for patients who had more than one of these risk factors .
depression is the most common psychiatric syndrome in cancer patients and adversely affects anti-cancer immune system and life quality of patients .
antidepressant desipramine ( dmi ) is clinically prescribed in the auxiliary treatment of cancer patients .
increasing evidences suggest that dmi has a broad spectrum of target-off biological effects , such as anticancer properties .
our previous study revealed that dmi at the clinical relevant concentrations could induce chop-dependent apoptotic death in c6 glioma cells .
in this study , we further explored the pro-autophagic effect of dmi in c6 glioma cells and its underlying mechanism .
treatment with dmi could induce autophagic cell death characterized by the formation of autophagosome and the elevated level of autophagic protein beclin-1 and cellular redistribution of marker lc3 .
meanwhile , dmi inhibited the activation of pi3k-akt-mtor pathway which is considered as a negative regulator of autophagy .
furthermore , dmi activated perk-eif2 and atf6 of endoplasmic reticulum ( er ) stress pathway , while knockdown of perk with the perk-specific short interfering rna ( sirna ) could obviously attenuate the autophagy .
the results strongly suggested that dmi could induce autophagy through the perk-er stress pathway in c6 glioma cells .
our findings provided new insights into another beneficial potential of antidepressant dmi in the adjuvant therapy of cancer .
therapy-induced senescence ( tis ) , a cytostatic stress response in cancer cells , is induced inefficiently by current anticancer agents and radiation .
the mechanisms that mediate tis in cancer cells are not well defined .
herein , we characterize a robust senescence response both in vitro and in vivo to the quinone diaziquone ( azq ) , previously identified in a high-throughput senescence-induction small-molecule screen .
using azq and several other agents that induce senescence , we screened a series of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors and found that p27(kip1) was induced in all investigated prostate cancer cell lines .
the ubiquitin-ligase skp2 negatively regulates p27(kip1) and , during tis , is translocated to the cytoplasm before its expression is decreased in senescent cells .
overexpression of skp2 blocks the effects of azq on senescence and p27(kip1) induction .
we also find that stable long-term short hairpin rna knockdown of skp2 decreases proliferation but does not generate the complete senescence phenotype .
we conclude that skp2 participates in regulating tis but , alone , is insufficient to induce senescence in cancer cells .
dendritic cells ( dcs ) and natural killer ( nk ) cells are central components of innate immunity for controlling tumor growth .
the therapeutic effects of certain anti-myeloma drugs are partially mediated by targeting the innate immune response .
in addition , novel types of natural compounds have been developed that efficiently modulate the activity of both the cellular and humoral compartments of immunity .
mgn-3 is known as an activator of natural killer cells , inducer of apoptosis and cytokine production , and modulator of dendritic cell maturation and differentiation in vitro .
we have performed a randomized , placebo-controlled study to examine the effects of mgn-3 on innate immune system parameters in 48 multiple myeloma patients .
we performed immunophenotypic analysis of peripheral blood samples , determined nk cell activity , and assessed the cytokine profiles of plasma before and during 3months of treatment .
the results demonstrate a clear increase in nk activity in mgn-3-treated patients compared to the placebo group , an increased level of myeloid dcs in peripheral blood , and augmented concentrations of t helper cell type 1-related cytokines .
the present study suggests that mgn-3 may represent an immunologically relevant product for activating innate immunity in multiple myeloma patients and warrants further testing to demonstrate clinical efficacy .
aim to elucidate the roles of receptor tyrosine kinases ret and vegfr2 and the raf/mek/erk signaling cascade in cancer treatment with sorafenib .
methods the cell lines a549 , hela , and hepg2 were tested .
the enzyme activity was examined under cell-free conditions using 384-well microplate assays .
cell proliferation was evaluated using the invitrogen alarmar blue assay .
gene expression was analyzed using the invitrogen sybr green expression assays with a sequence detection system .
protein expression analysis was performed using western blotting .
results sorafenib potently suppressed the activities of craf , vegfr2 , and ret with ic(50) values of 20.9 , 4 and 0.4 nmol/l , respectively .
sorafenib inhibited craf , vegfr2 , and ret via non-atp-competitive , atp-competitive and mixed-type modes , respectively .
in contrast , sorafenib exerted only moderate cytotoxic effects on the proliferation of the 3 cell lines .
the ic(50) values for inhibition of a549 , hela , and hepg2 cells were 8572 , 4163 , and 8338 nmol/l , respectively .
in the 3 cell lines , sorafenib suppressed the cell proliferation mainly by blocking the mek/erk downstream pathway at the posttranscriptional level , which in turn regulated related gene expression via a feed-back mechanism .
conclusion this study provides novel evidence that protein kinases ret and vegfr2 play crucial roles in cancer treatment with sorafenib .
the cadherins are a family of cell surface glycoproteins responsible for cell adhesion which play an important role in cell morphology , contact inhibition and signal transduction during tumorigenesis .
protocadherin 8 ( pcdh8 ) , a member of the cadherin family , has been reported to act as a tumor suppressor involved in oncogenesis in breast cancer .
in this study , we aimed to investigate the epigenetic inactivation of pcdh8 and its tumor suppressor function in gastric cancer .
the expression of pcdh8 was markedly reduced or silenced in gastric cancer cell lines compared with normal gastric cells or tissues .
methylation of the pcdh8 gene promoter was observed in 100% ( 4/4 ) of cell lines and 55.38% ( 36/65 ) of the primary gastric cancer by methylation-specific pcr , but not in normal gastric mucosa ( 0/10 ) .
methylated pcdh8 was significantly associated with lymph node metastasis in a logistic regression analysis .
the demethylation reagent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine was able to restore or upregulate pcdh8 expression in gastric cancer cell lines .
ectopic expression of pcdh8 in silenced gastric cancer cells significantly inhibited cell migration and induced apoptosis .
for the first time , our study demonstrates the epigenetic inactivation of pcdh8 by promoter methylation and its tumor suppressor function in human gastric cancer .
thus , pcdh8 could be identified as a candidate tumor suppressor in human gastric cancer .
therapy-induced cellular senescence ( tcs ) , characterized by prolonged cell cycle arrest , is an in vivo response of human cancers to chemotherapy and radiation .
unfortunately , tcs is reversible for a subset of senescent cells , leading to cellular reproliferation and ultimately tumor progression .
this invariable consequence of tcs recapitulates the clinical treatment experience of patients with advanced cancer .
we report the findings of a clinicopathological study in patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer demonstrating that marker of in vivo tcs following neoadjuvant therapy prognosticate adverse clinical outcome .
in our efforts to elucidate key molecular pathways underlying tcs and cell cycle escape , we have previously shown that the deregulation of mitotic kinase cdk1 and its downstream effectors are important mediators of survival and cell cycle reentry .
we now report that aberrant expression of cdk1 interferes with apoptosis and promotes the formation of polyploid senescent cells during tcs .
these polyploid senescent cells represent important transition states through which escape preferentially occurs .
the cdk1 pathway is in part modulated differentially by p21 and p27 two members of the kip cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor family during tcs .
altogether , these studies underscore the importance of tcs in cancer therapeutics .
the aberrant activation of sonic hedgehog ( shh ) pathway contributes to initiation and progression of various malignancies .
however , the roles and underlying mechanisms of shh signaling pathway in invasion and metastasis of liver cancer have not been well understood .
in this study , we found that shh signaling was activated and correlated with invasion and metastasis in hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) .
enhanced shh signaling by recombinant human shh n-terminal peptide ( rshh-n ) promoted hepatoma cell adhesion , migration and invasion , whereas blockade of shh signaling with shh neutralizing antibody or cyclopamine suppressed hepatoma cell adhesion , migration and invasion .
furthermore , matrix metalloproteinase ( mmp)-2 and mmp-9 expressions and activities were upregulated and downregulated by rshh-n and shh signaling inhibitor , respectively .
the rshh-n-mediated hepatoma cell migration and invasion was blocked by mmp-specific inhibitors or neutralizing antibodies to mmp-2 and mmp-9 .
in addition , phosphorylations of akt and focal adhesion kinase ( fak ) were increased and decreased by rshh-n and shh signaling inhibitor , respectively .
further investigations showed that activation of akt and fak were required for rshh-n-mediated upregulation of mmp-2 and mmp-9 , cell migration and invasion .
finally , we found that shh protein expression was positively correlated with phosphorylatd fak tyr397 , phosphorylatd akt ser473 , mmp-2 and mmp-9 protein expressions in hcc samples .
taken together , our findings suggest that shh pathway induces cell migration and invasion through fak/akt signaling-mediated mmp-2 and mmp-9 production and activation in liver cancer .
purpose this study investigated the impact of specific mutations in codon 12 of the kirsten-ras ( kras ) gene on treatment efficacy in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer ( mcrc ) .
patients overall , 119 patients bearing a kras mutation in codon 12 were evaluated .
all patients received cetuximab-based first-line chemotherapy within the central european cooperative oncology group ( cecog ) , aio krk-0104 or aio krk-0306 trials .
results patients with kras codon 12 mutant mcrc showed a broad range of outcome when treated with cetuximab-based first-line regimens .
patients with tumors bearing a kras p.g12d mutation showed a strong trend to a more favorable outcome compared to other mutations ( overall survival 23.3 vs. 14-18 months ; hazard ratio 0.66 , range 0.43-1.03 ) .
an interaction model illustrated that kras p.g12c was associated with unfavorable outcome when treated with oxaliplatin plus cetuximab .
conclusion the present analysis suggests that kras codon 12 mutation may not represent a homogeneous entity in mcrc when treated with cetuximab-based first-line therapy .
anal canal cancer is a rare tumor without clear treatment evidence in the metastatic setting .
in terms of the bad prognosis of patients with metastatic anal cancer , further therapeutic options are urgently needed .
in this paper we present the case of a 64-year-old man suffering from undifferentiated squamous cell carcinoma with liver metastases .
after progression on cisplatin and fluorouracil , tumor tissue was analyzed with respect to anti-egfr therapy with cetuximab .
there was no kras mutation and the egfr expression level in the tumor tissue was 2+ ; ideal conditions for the immunotherapy .
encouraged by these results we started a therapy using folfiri in combination with cetuximab .
fortunately the patient showed a partial response after 6 cycles .
on patient's preference we did a therapy break of 6 weeks .
within this time period the disease was progressive indicating its aggressiveness .
however , the same immunotherapy was able to stabilize the disease for a further 3 months .
the patient died 21 months after diagnosis because of liver failure .
nevertheless , from our perspective the combination of folfiri and cetuximab is quite a promising therapeutic option for patients with metastatic anal cancer .
potential predictive factors of the immunochemotherapy are discussed in this paper .
we examined how well the human papillomavirus ( hpv ) e6 oncogene can function in the absence of the e7 oncogene during the carcinogenic process in human keratinocytes using a common hpv variant strongly associated with cervical cancer : the asian-american e6 variant ( aae6 ) .
this e6 variant is 20 times more frequently detected in cervical cancer than the prototype european e6 variant , as evidenced by independent epidemiological data .
using cell culture and cell-based functional assays , we assessed how this variant can perform crucial carcinogenesis steps compared to the prototype e6 variant .
the ability to immortalize and transform primary human foreskin keratinocytes ( phfks ) to acquire resilient phenotypes and the ability to promote cell migration were evaluated .
the immortalization capability was assayed based on population doublings , number of passages , surpassing mortality stages 1 and 2 , human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( htert ) expression , and the ability to overcome g(1) arrest via p53 degradation .
transformation and migration efficiency were analyzed using a combination of functional cell-based assays .
we observed that either aae6 or prototype e6 proteins alone were sufficient to immortalize phfks , although aae6 was more potent in doing so .
the aae6 variant protein alone pushed phfks through transformation and significantly increased their migration ability over that of the e6 prototype .
our findings are in line with epidemiological data that the aa variant of hpv16 confers an increased risk over the european prototype for cervical cancer , as evidenced by a superior immortalization , transformation , and metastatic potential .
biallelic mutations in mcph1 cause primary microcephaly ( mcph ) with the cellular phenotype of defective chromosome condensation .
mcph1 encodes a multifunctional protein that notably is involved in brain development , regulation of chromosome condensation , and dna damage response .
in the present studies , we detected that mcph1 encodes several distinct transcripts , including two major forms : full-length mcph1 ( mcph1-fl ) and a second transcript lacking the six 3 ' exons ( mcph1e9-14 ) .
both variants show comparable tissue-specific expression patterns , demonstrate nuclear localization that is mediated independently via separate nls motifs , and are more abundant in certain fetal than adult organs .
in addition , the expression of either isoform complements the chromosome condensation defect found in genetically mcph1-deficient or mcph1 sirna-depleted cells , demonstrating a redundancy of both mcph1 isoforms for the regulation of chromosome condensation .
strikingly however , both transcripts are regulated antagonistically during cell-cycle progression and there are functional differences between the isoforms with regard to the dna damage response ; mcph1-fl localizes to phosphorylated h2ax repair foci following ionizing irradiation , while mcph1e9-14 was evenly distributed in the nucleus .
in summary , our results demonstrate here that mcph1 encodes different isoforms that are differentially regulated at the transcript level and have different functions at the protein level .
background chemokines are involved in multiple aspects of pathogenesis and cellular trafficking in tumorigenesis .
in this study , we report that the latest member of the c-x-c-type chemokines , cxcl17 ( dmc/vcc-1 ) , recruits immature myeloid-derived cells and enhances early tumor progression .
methodology/principal findings cxcl17 was preferentially expressed in some aggressive types of gastrointestinal , breast , and lung cancer cells .
cxcl17 expression did not impart nih3t3 cells with oncogenic potential in vitro , but cxcl17-expressing nih3t3 cells could form vasculature-rich tumors in immunodeficient mice .
our data showed that cxcl17-expressing tumor cells increased immature cd11b(+)gr1(+) myeloid-derived cells at tumor sites in mice and promoted cd31(+) tumor angiogenesis .
extensive chemotactic assays proved that cxcl17-responding cells were cd11b(+)gr1(high)f4/80(-) cells (  90% ) with a neutrophil-like morphology in vitro .
although cxcl17 expression could not increase the number of cd11b(+)gr1(+) cells in tumor-burdened scid mice or promote metastases of low metastatic colon cancer cells , the existence of cxcl17-responding myeloid-derived cells caused a striking enhancement of xenograft tumor formation .
conclusions/significance these results suggest that aberrant expression of cxcl17 in tumor cells recruits immature myeloid-derived cells and promotes tumor progression through angiogenesis .
unlabelled background we aimed to develop a mouse spontaneous liver metastasis model from an orthotopically implanted human colon cancer cell line stably expressing a human sodium/iodide symporter ( nis ) reporter gene , which can be imaged with single-photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) using 99mtco4- .
methods a recombinant plasmid containing a constitutively driven nis gene ( pcdna3-nis ) was transfected into the human colon cancer cell line hct116 , and stable cell lines were established .
the stable cells were subcutaneously injected into the nude mice .
when the diameter reached 10mm , the xenografts were excised , cut into small fragments , and orthotopically implanted into the cecal walls of another nude mice. 99mtco4- spect/ct imaging was initiated 8weeks later and repeated every 1 to 2weeks .
results the production and function of nis protein was confirmed in vitro by western blotting and 99mtco4- uptake assay .
on spect/ct imaging , focal 99mtco4- uptake was detected in the liver .
necropsy revealed local growth of the orthotopic colon xenografts with extensive invasion , microscopic serosal metastasis , and metastatic foci in the corresponding hepatic regions showing focal 99mtco4- uptake .
immunohistochemistry revealed high levels of nis expression in cells forming liver tumor , indicating that the liver tumor cells originated from the orthotopic colon xenografts .
conclusions the present proof-of-concept study provided a rationale for employing a radionuclide reporter gene for the specific visualization of spontaneous liver metastasis in living mice .
this unique animal model of clinically relevant and externally detectable liver metastasis will be a powerful tool for investigating tumor biology and developing novel therapies for cancer metastasis .
cancer cells convert glucose preferentially to lactate even in the presence of oxygen ( aerobic glycolysis-warburg effect ) .
new concepts in cancer treatment aim at inhibition of aerobic glycolysis .
pyruvate dehydrogenase converts pyruvate to acetylcoa thus preventing lactate formation .
therefore , the aim of this study was to evaluate compounds that could activate pyruvate dehydrogenase in cancer cells .
we investigated the effects of ( r)-(+)--lipoic acid ( lpa ) and dichloroacetate ( dca ) , possible activators of pyruvate dehydrogenase , on suppression of aerobic glycolysis and induction of cell death .
the neuroblastoma cell lines kelly , sk-n-sh , neuro-2a and the breast cancer cell line skbr3 were incubated with different concentrations ( 0.1-30 mm ) of lpa and dca .
the effects of both compounds on cell viability/proliferation ( wst-1 assay ) , [ 18f]-fdg uptake , lactate production and induction of apoptosis ( flow cytometric detection of caspase-3 ) were evaluated .
furthermore , nmri nu/nu mice that had been inoculated s.c. with skbr3 cells were treated daily for four weeks with lpa ( i.p , 18.5 mg/kg ) starting at day 7 p.i. .
tumor development was measured with a sliding calliper and monitored via [ 18f]-fdg-pet .
residual tumors after therapy were examined histopathologically .
these data suggests that lpa can reduce ( 1 ) cell viability/proliferation , ( 2 ) uptake of [ 18f]-fdg and ( 3 ) lactate production and increase apoptosis in all investigated cell lines .
in contrast , dca was almost ineffective .
in the mouse xenograft model with s.c .
skbr3 cells , daily treatment with lpa retarded tumor progression .
therefore , lpa seems to be a promising compound for cancer treatment .
the epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) is a member of the her family receptors and its activation induced by its natural ligand egf results in colon cancer growth and progression .
panitumumab ( pmab ) is a fully human igg2 anti-egfr antibody that blocks the egfr actions .
in the present study , we evaluated the effects of pmab on the egf-mediated cellular responses in a panel of colon cancer cells ( hct-8 , ht-29 , dld-1 and hct-116 ) .
hct-1116 and dld-1 cells showed no significant egf-dependent cell proliferation ; ht-29 and hct-8 exhibited an egf-dependent proliferation , with hct-8 cells to be the most responsive with significant egfr phosphorylation upon treatment with egf .
the effects of pmab were then evaluated in the most egf-responsive cells , hct-8 .
in that respect , pmab impedes the signaling cascade mediated by egfr intracellular phosphorylation and activity of focal adhesion kinase ( fak ) as well as the egf-induced invasive and migratory potential of colon cancer cells .
at the level of matrix effectors implicated in colon cancer progression we report that pmab is a potent inhibitor of constitute and egf-mediated gene expression of certain matrix effectors , such as membrane-type 1 metalloproteinase ( mt1-mmp ) , extracellular metalloproteinases inducer ( emmprin ) , urokinase plasminogen activator ( upa ) and syndecan-4 .
the obtained data demonstrated that pmab is a specific blocker of egf-mediated egfr activation , resulting in a significant inhibition of colon cancer cell proliferation in early stages of growth , migration and invasiveness as well as of matrix effector implicated in cancer progression .
hypoxia in the tumor microenvironment plays a central role in the evolution of immune escape mechanisms by tumor cells .
in this study , we report the definition of mir-210 as a mirna regulated by hypoxia in lung cancer and melanoma , documenting its involvement in blunting the susceptibility of tumor cells to lysis by antigen-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes ( ctl). mir-210 was induced in hypoxic zones of human tumor tissues .
its attenuation in hypoxic cells significantly restored susceptibility to autologous ctl-mediated lysis , independent of tumor cell recognition and ctl reactivity .
a comprehensive approach using transcriptome analysis , argonaute protein immunoprecipitation , and luciferase reporter assay revealed that the genes ptpn1 , hoxa1 , and tp53i11 were mir-210 target genes regulated in hypoxic cells .
in support of their primary importance in mediating the immunosuppressive effects of mir-210 , coordinate silencing of ptpn1 , hoxa1 , and tp53i11 dramatically decreased tumor cell susceptibility to ctl-mediated lysis .
our findings show how mir-210 induction links hypoxia to immune escape from ctl-mediated lysis , by providing a mechanistic understanding of how this mirna mediates immunosuppression in oxygen-deprived regions of tumors where cancer stem-like cells and metastatic cellular behaviors are known to evolve .
senescence , an inherent tumor suppressive mechanism , is a critical determinant for chemotherapy .
in the present study , we show that the monocarboxylate transporter 2 ( mct2 ) protein was tumor-selectively expressed in human colorectal malignancies and knockdown of mct2 induces mitochondrial dysfunction , cell-cycle arrest , and senescence without additional cellular stress in colorectal cancer cell lines .
moreover , the reactive oxygen species ( ros ) scavenger , n-acetylcysteine , blocked mct2 knockdown-induced growth arrest and cellular senescence , indicating a pivotal role of ros in this pathway .
dramatic induction of mitochondrial superoxide generation and decrease in atp production was observed , indicating that mitochondrial dysfunction is the major mechanism underlying mct2 knockdown-induced ros generation .
senescence-associated dna damage was also evident from the increase in promyelocytic leukemia bodies , h2ax foci , and sahf .
conversely , overexpression of mct2 prevented doxorubicin-induced ros accumulation ( p = 0.0002 ) and cell growth inhibition ( p = 0.001 ) .
mct2 knockdown suppressed kras mutant colorectal tumor growth in vivo .
in addition , mct2 knockdown and cytostatic drug combination further enhanced the antitumor effect .
these findings support the use of mct2 as a promising target for inhibition of colorectal cancer .
objective to investigate the relationship between lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis in cervical squamous carcinoma .
methods eighty cases of invasive cervical squamous cancer were selected as objects of our study .
double immunohistochemical staining with antibodies against lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor 1 and ki-67 was used to label the lymphatic vessels and mark the proliferative lymphatic vessels in cervical squamous cancer .
the peritumoral lymphatic vessel density and intratumoral lymphatic vessel density was assessed .
the lymphatic vessels proliferation index was evaluated by calculating ki-67 proliferation index ( pi ) to reflect the lymphangiogenesis of cervical squamous cancer .
then the correlation between lymphangiogenesis and clinicopathologic features of cervical squamous cancer was analyzed .
results the lvd of cervical cancer ( 15.23  3.6 ) was clearly higher than that of the adjacent normal cervical subepithelial tissues ( 9.9  2.5 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
the peritumoral lymphatic vessel density of cervical cancer ( 18.75  4.3 ) was significantly higher than the intratumoral lymphatic vessel density of cervical cancer ( 11.71  4.9 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
lymphatic pi ( lpi ) of cervical cancer ( 0.258  0.07 ) was higher than that of the adjacent normal cervical subepithelial tissues ( 0.068  0.08 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
the peritumoral lymphatic vessel pi of cervical cancer ( 0.324  0.06 ) was notably higher than the intratumoral lymphatic vessel pi of cervical cancer ( 0.232  0.06 , p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
peritumoral lymphatic vessel density and peritumoral lymphatic vessel were clearly associated with the lymph node metastasis ( p = 0.001 and p = 0.002 , respectively ) and lymphovascular space invasion ( p = 0.024 and p = 0.01 , respectively ) .
conclusions the high density of peritumoral lymphatic vessels is a potential predictor of more aggressive phenotype of cervical squamous cancer .
cellular senescence can be a functional barrier to carcinogenesis .
we hypothesized that inflammation modulates carcinogenesis through senescence and dna damage response ( ddr ) .
we examined the association between senescence and ddr with macrophage levels in inflammatory bowel disease ( ibd ) .
in vitro experiments tested the ability of macrophages to induce senescence in primary cells .
inflammation modulating micrornas were identified in senescence colon tissue for further investigation .
background .
an important goal of personalized cancer therapy is to tailor specific therapies to the mutational profile of individual patients .
however , whole genome sequencing studies have shown that the mutational profiles of cancers evolve over time and often differ between primary and metastatic sites .
activating point mutations in the pik3ca gene are common in primary breast cancer tumors , but their presence in breast cancer bone metastases has not been assessed previously .
results .
fourteen patients with breast cancer bone metastases were biopsied by three methods : ct-guided bone biopsies ; bone marrow trephine biopsies ; and bone marrow aspiration .
samples that were positive for cancer cells were obtained from six patients .
three of these patients had detectable pik3ca mutations in bone marrow cancer cells .
primary tumor samples were available for four of the six patients assessed for pik3ca status in their bone metastases .
for each of these , the pik3ca mutation status was the same in the primary and metastatic sites .
conclusions .
pik3ca mutations occur frequently in breast cancer bone metastases .
the pik3ca mutation status in bone metastases samples appears to reflect the pik3ca mutation status in the primary tumour .
breast cancer patients with bone metastases may be candidates for treatment with selective pik3ca inhibitors .
multiple myeloma ( mm ) is classically illustrated by a desynchronized cytokine system with rise in inflammatory cytokines .
there are recent reports which emphasized the potential role of angiogenesis in the development of mm. role of cyclooxygenase 2 ( cox-2 ) is well documented in the pathogenesis of solid tumors , but little is known about its occurrence and function in hematologic neoplasms .
involvement of neoangiogenesis is reported in the progression of mm , and angiopoietins probably contribute to this progression by enhancing neovascularization .
circulatory and mrna levels of angiogenic factors and cyclooxygenase were determined in 125 subjects ( 75 mm patients and 50 healthy controls ) by using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and quantitative pcr .
we observed significant increase for angiogenic factors ( ang-1 , ang-2 , hepatocyte growth factor , and vascular endothelial growth factor ) and cyclooxygenase at circulatory level , as well as at mrna level , as compared to healthy controls except insignificant increase for ang-1 at circulatory level .
we have also observed the significant positive correlation of all angiogenic factors with cyclooxygenase .
the strong association found between angiogenic factors and cox-2 in this study may lead to the development of combination therapeutic strategy to treat mm. therefore , targeting cox-2 by using its effective inhibitors demonstrating antiangiogenic and antitumor effects could be used as a new therapeutic approach for treatment of mm .
map17 is a small 17 kda non-glycosylated membrane protein previously identified as being overexpressed in carcinomas .
breast tumor cells that overexpress map17 show an increased tumoral phenotype with enhanced proliferative capabilities both in the presence or the absence of contact inhibition , decreased apoptotic sensitivity , and increased migration .
map17-expressing clones also grow better in nude mice .
the increased malignant cell behavior induced by map17 is associated with an increase in reactive oxygen species ( ros ) production , and the treatment of map17-expressing cells with antioxidants results in a reduction in the tumorigenic properties of these cells .
the map17-dependent increase in ros and tumorigenesis relies on its pdz-binding domain because disruption of this sequence by point mutations abolishes the ability of map17 to enhance ros production and tumorigenesis .
map17 is overexpressed in a great variety of human carcinomas , including breast tumors .
immunohistochemical analysis of map17 during cancer progression demonstrates that overexpression of the protein strongly correlates with tumoral progression .
generalized map17 overexpression in human carcinomas indicates that map17 can be a good marker for tumorigenesis and , especially , for malignant progression .
background coronins are a family of highly evolutionary conserved proteins reportedly involved in the regulation of actin cytoskeletal dynamics , although only coronin 3 has been shown to be related to cancer cell migration .
in glioblastoma cells , the knockdown of coronin 3 inhibits cell proliferation and invasion .
coronin 3 is also associated with the aggression and metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma .
in this paper , we analyze the migration , invasion and metastasis abilities of gastric cancer cells after up- or down-regulation of coronin 3 , and explore the mechanism of coronin 3 in the process of gastric cancer metastasis .
results the expression of coronin 3 was higher in the highly metastatic sub-cell line mkn28-m , which we established in our laboratory .
we also demonstrated that the expression of coronin 3 was remarkably higher in lymph lode metastases than in primary gastric cancer tissues , and over-expression of coronin 3 was correlated with the increased clinical stage and lymph lode metastasis .
recombinant lentiviral vectors encoding shrnas were designed to down-regulate coronin 3 expression in gastric cancer cell lines .
stable knockdown of coronin 3 by this lentiviral vector could efficiently inhibit the migration and invasion of mkn45 gastric cancer cells .
in contrast , up-regulation of coronin 3 significantly enhanced migration and invasion of mkn28-nm cells .
in addition , knockdown of coronin 3 significantly reduced liver metastasis in mice after tail vein injection of gastric cancer cells .
the human tumor metastasis pcr array was used to screen the metastasis-associated genes identified by the down-regulation of coronin 3 , and the results suggested that , following the knockdown of coronin 3 , the tumor cell migration and invasion were inhibited by the reduced expression of mmp-9 and cathepsin k. conclusion coronin 3 is highly expressed in gastric cancer metastases and can promote the metastatic behaviors of gastric cancer cells , including their migration and invasion .
immunosenescence , the progressive decline of adaptive immunity and chronic inflammation with ageing has been demonstrated to be the main factor responsible for infections , cancer and autoimmune conditions in the elderly .
senescence-accelerated mouse ( sam ) was used to study the protective effects of pu-erh tea in the elderly .
the senile-prone sub-strain , sam-p8 mice were administered individually with ripened or crude pu-erh tea at 125 , 250 or 500mg/kg .
the results showed that pu-erh tea significantly increased the fractions of nave t lymphocytes , cd8(+)cd28(+) t lymphocytes and nk cells in the peripheral blood , but decreased the levels of il-6 in aged mice .
these data suggested that the pu-erh tea reversed the immunosenescence by restoring the immune deficiency and decreasing pro-inflammatory cytokine .
thus , long term drinking of pu-erh tea may be beneficial for the aged population in terms of increasing the body's resistance to infection and cancer .
the aim of this work was to characterize the antitumoral activity of the plant compound 7-epi-nemorosone in prostate carcinoma cell lines .
prostate cancer is the most frequently diagnosed malignancy and the second-leading cause of cancer death in men .
in spite of the current therapeutic options for this cancer entity , many patients die due to metastases in distant organs and acquired chemotherapy resistance .
thus , approaches to provide improvements in outcome and quality of life for such patients are urgently needed .
recently , the polyisoprenylated benzophenone 7-epi-nemorosone , originally collected by honeybees from clusia rosea and clusia grandiflora ( clusiaceae ) , has been described to be a potent antitumoral agent .
here , its activity in prostate carcinoma is reported. 7-epi-nemorosone was isolated from caribbean propolis employing rp-hplc techniques .
its cytotoxicity was assessed using the mtt proliferation assay in human androgen-dependent prostate carcinoma lncap cells including an mdr1(+) sub-line .
no cross-resistance was detected .
facs-based cell cycle analysis revealed a significant increase in the sub-g0/g1 , g1 , and depletion in the s phase populations .
a concomitant down-regulation of cyclins d1/d3 and cdk 4/6 in lncap cells was detected by western blot .
annexin-v-fitc labeling and caspase-3 cleavage assays showed that 7-epi-nemorosone induced apoptotic events .
major signal transduction elements such as p38 mapk and akt/pkb as well as androgen receptor ar and psa production were found to be down-regulated after exposure to the drug .
erk1/2 protein levels and phosphorylation status were down-regulated accompanied by up-regulation but inhibition of the activity of their immediate upstream kinases mek1/2 .
additionally , akt/pkb enzymatic activity was effectively inhibited at a similar concentration as for mek1/2 .
here , we demonstrate for the first time that 7-epi-nemorosone exerts cytotoxicity in an androgen-dependent prostate carcinoma entity by targeting the mek1/2 signal transducer .
it is well established that aberrant production of inflammatory mediators has been associated with most the toxic manifestations and the genesis of different chronic diseases including cancer .
the basic aim of the present study is to investigate the effects of soy isoflavones ( sif ) on 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa)-induced cutaneous inflammatory responses and to explore the underlying molecular mechanisms .
we have studied the protective effects of sif against tpa induced oxidative stress , pro-inflammatory cytokines level , activation of nf-b , expression of cox-2 and ki-67 in mouse skin .
animals were divided into five groups i-v ( n=6 ) .
groups ii , iii and iv received topical application of tpa at the dose of 10 nmol/0.2 ml of acetone/animal/day , for 2 days .
animals of the groups iii and iv were pre-treated with sif 1.0 g ( d1 ) and 2.0 g ( d2 ) topically 30 min prior to each tpa administration , while groups i and v were given acetone ( 0.2 ml ) and sif ( d2 ) , respectively .
we have found that sif pretreatment significantly inhibited tpa induced oxidative stress , proinflammatory cytokines production and activation of nf-b .
sif also inhibited the expression of cox-2 and ki-67 .
histological findings further supported the protective effects of sif against tpa-induced cutaneous damage .
thus , our results suggest that inhibitory effect of sif on tpa-induced cutaneous inflammation includes inhibition of proinflammatory cytokines , attenuation of oxidative stress , activation of nf-b and expression of cox-2 .
contact inhibition is a crucial mechanism regulating proliferation in vitro and in vivo .
although it is generally accepted that contact inhibition plays a pivotal role in maintaining tissue homeostasis , the molecular mechanisms of contact inhibition are still not fully understood .
foxm1 is known as a proliferation-associated transcription factor and is upregulated in many cancer types .
vice versa , anti-proliferative signals , such as tgf- and differentiation signals decrease foxm1 expression .
here we investigated the role of foxm1 in contact inhibition in fibroblasts .
we show that protein expression of foxm1 is severely and rapidly downregulated upon contact inhibition , probably by inhibition of erk activity , which then leads to decreased expression of cyclin a and polo-like kinase 1 .
vice versa , ectopic expression of foxm1 prevents the decrease in cyclin a and polo-like kinase 1 and causes a two-fold increase in saturation density indicating loss of contact inhibition .
hence , we show that downregulation of foxm1 is required for contact inhibition by regulating expression of cyclin a and polo-like kinase 1 .
aim to investigate whether luteolin , a highly prevalent flavonoid , reverses the effects of epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) in vitro and in vivo and to determine the mechanisms underlying this reversal .
methods murine malignant melanoma b16f10 cells were exposed to 1% o(2) for 24 h .
cellular mobility and adhesion were assessed using boyden chamber transwell assay and cell adhesion assay , respectively .
emt-related proteins , such as e-cadherin and n-cadherin , were examined using western blotting .
female c57bl/6 mice ( 6 to 8 weeks old ) were injected with b16f10 cells ( 110(6) cells in 0.2 ml per mouse ) via the lateral tail vein .
the mice were treated with luteolin ( 10 or 20 mg/kg , ip ) daily for 23 d .
on the 23rd day after tumor injection , the mice were sacrificed , and the lungs were collected , and metastatic foci in the lung surfaces were photographed .
tissue sections were analyzed with immunohistochemistry and he staining .
results hypoxia changed the morphology of b16f10 cells in vitro from the cobblestone-like to mesenchymal-like strips , which was accompanied by increased cellular adhesion and invasion .
luteolin ( 5-50 mol/l ) suppressed the hypoxia-induced changes in the cells in a dose-dependent manner .
hypoxia significantly decreased the expression of e-cadherin while increased the expression of n-cadherin in the cells ( indicating the occurrence of emt-like transformation ) , which was reversed by luteolin ( 5 mol/l ) .
in b16f10 cells , luteolin up-regulated e-cadherin at least partly via inhibiting the 3 integrin/fak signal pathway .
in experimental metastasis model mice , treatment with luteolin ( 10 or 20 mg/kg ) reduced metastatic colonization in the lungs by 50% .
furthermore , the treatment increased the expression of e-cadherin while reduced the expression of vimentin and 3 integrin in the tumor tissues .
conclusion luteolin inhibits the hypoxia-induced emt in malignant melanoma cells both in vitro and in vivo via the regulation of 3 integrin , suggesting that luteolin may be applied as a potential anticancer chemopreventative and chemotherapeutic agent .
p21 is a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor that plays a role in promoting g1 cell cycle arrest and cellular senescence .
consistent with this role , p21 is a downstream target of several tumour suppressors and oncogenes , and it is downregulated in the majority of tumours , including breast cancer .
here , we report that protein arginine methyltransferase 6 ( prmt6 ) , a type i prmt known to act as a transcriptional cofactor , directly represses the p21 promoter .
prmt6 knock-down ( kd ) results in a p21 derepression in breast cancer cells , which is p53-independent , and leads to cell cycle arrest , cellular senescence and reduced growth in soft agar assays and in severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ) mice for all the cancer lines examined .
we finally show that bypassing the p21-mediated arrest rescues prmt6 kd cells from senescence , and it restores their ability to grow on soft agar .
we conclude that prmt6 acts as an oncogene in breast cancer cells , promoting growth and preventing senescence , making it an attractive target for cancer therapy .
the molecular mechanism mediating expression of senescent cell antigen-aggregated or cleaved band 3 and externalized phosphatidylserine ( ps ) on the surface of aged erythrocytes and their premature expression in certain anemias is not completely elucidated .
the erythrocytes with these surface modifications undergo macrophage-mediated phagocytosis .
in this study , the role of protein kinase c ( pkc ) isoforms in the expression of these surface modifications was investigated .
inhibition of pkc  by 30m rottlerin ( r30 ) and 2.3nm g 6976 caused expression of both the senescent cell marker-externalized ps measured by facs analysis and aggregated band 3 detected by western blotting .
in contrast to this observation , but in keeping with literature , pkc activation by phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate ( pma ) also led to the expression of senescence markers .
we explain this antithesis by demonstrating that pma-treated cells show reduction in the activity of pkc  , thereby simulating inhibition .
the reduction in pkc  activity may be attributed to the known downregulation of pma-activated pkc  , caused by its membrane translocation and proteolysis .
we demonstrate membrane translocation of pkc  in pma-treated cells to substantiate this inference .
thus loss of pkc  activity either by inhibition or downregulation can cause surface modifications which can trigger erythrophagocytosis .
ovarian cancer-related angiogenesis is a complex process orchestrated by many positive and negative regulators .
many growth factors are involved in the development of the tumor-associated vasculature , and from these , endocrine gland-derived vascular endothelial growth factor ( eg-vegf ) seems to play a crucial role .
eg-vegf is the first organ-specific angiogenic factor and its effects are restricted to the endothelial cells of the endocrine glands .
although eg-vegf was detected in both normal and neoplastic ovaries , its clinical significance remains controversial .
in the present study , we analyzed 30 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer , and the immunohistochemical expression of eg-vegf was compared with the conventional clinico-pathological parameters of prognosis .
neoplastic cells of the ovarian carcinoma expressed eg-vegf in 73.33% of the cases , as a cytoplasmic granular product of reaction .
we found a strong correlation between the expression of eg-vegf at protein level and tumor stage , grade , and microscopic type .
the expression of eg-vegf was found in patients with stage iii and iv , but not in stage ii .
the majority of serous adenocarcinoma , half of the cases with clear cell carcinoma and two cases with endometrioid carcinoma showed definite expression in tumor cells .
no positive reaction was found in the cases with mucinous carcinoma .
our results showed that eg-vegf expression is an indicator not only of the advanced stage , but also of ovarian cancer progression .
based on these data , we concluded that eg-vegf expression in tumor cells of the epithelial ovarian cancer is a good marker of unfavorable prognosis and could be an attractive therapeutic target in patients with advanced-stage tumors , refractory conventional chemotherapy .
unlabelled hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) is a major liver malignancy .
we previously demonstrated that deregulation of epigenetic regulators is a common event in human hcc .
suppressor of variegation 3-9 homolog 1 ( suv39h1 ) , the prototype of histone methyltransferase , is the major enzyme responsible for histone h3 lysine 9 trimethylation , which , essentially , is involved in heterochromatin formation , chromosome segregation , and mitotic progression .
however , the implication of suv39h1 in hepatocarcinogenesis remains elusive .
in this study , we found that suv39h1 was frequently up-regulated in human hccs and was significantly associated with increased ki67 expression ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) and the presence of venous invasion ( p = 0.017 ) .
to investigate the role of suv39h1 in hcc development , both gain- and loss-of-function models were established .
suv39h1 overexpression remarkably enhanced hcc cell clonogenicity , whereas knockdown of suv39h1 substantially suppressed hcc cell proliferation and induced cell senescence .
in addition , ectopic expression of suv39h1 increased the migratory ability of hcc cells , whereas a reduced migration rate was observed in suv39h1 knockdown cells .
the significance of suv39h1 in hcc was further demonstrated in a nude mice model ; suv39h1 knockdown drastically inhibited in vivo tumorigenicity and abolished pulmonary metastasis of hcc cells .
we also identified microrna-125b ( mir-125b ) as a post-transcriptional regulator of suv39h1 .
ectopic expression of mir-125b inhibited suv39h1 3'-untranslated-region-coupled luciferase activity and suppressed endogenous suv39h1 expression at both messenger rna and protein levels .
we have previously reported frequent down-regulation of mir-125b in hcc .
interestingly , mir-125b level was found to be inversely correlated with suv39h1 expression ( p = 0.001 ) in clinical specimens .
our observations suggested that mir-125b down-regulation may account for the aberrant suv39h1 level in hcc .
conclusion our study demonstrated that suv39h1 up-regulation contributed to hcc development and metastasis .
the tumor-suppressive mir-125b served as a negative regulator of suv39h1 .
chronic inflammation is a risk factor for the development of colon cancer , providing genotoxic insults , growth and pro-angiogenic factors that can promote tumorigenesis and tumor growth .
immunomodulatory agents can interfere with the inflammation that feeds cancer , but their impact on the transformed cell is poorly understood .
the calcium/calcineurin signaling pathway , through activation of nfat , is essential for effective immune responses , and its inhibitors cyclosporin a ( csa ) and fk506 are used in the clinics to suppress immunity .
moreover , the kinases gsk3 and mtor , modulated by pi-3k/akt , can inhibit nfat activity , suggesting a cross-talk between the calcium and growth factor signaling pathways .
both nfat and mtor activity have been associated with tumorigenesis .
we therefore investigated the impact of calcineurin and pi-3k/mtor inhibition in growth of human colon carcinoma cells .
we show that despite the efficient inhibition of nfat1 activity , fk506 promotes tumor growth , whereas csa inhibits it due to a delay in cell cycle progression and induction of necroptosis .
we found nfb activation and mtorc1 activity not to be altered by csa or fk506 .
similarly , changes to mitochondrial homeostasis were equivalent upon treatment with these drugs .
we further show that , in our model , nfat1 activation is not modulated by pi3k/mtor .
we conclude that csa slows cell cycle progression and induces necroptosis of human carcinoma cell lines in a tgf- , nfat- , nfb- and pi3k/mtor-independent fashion .
nevertheless , our data suggest that csa , in addition to its anti-inflammatory capacity , may target transformed colon and esophagus carcinoma cells without affecting non-transformed cells , promoting beneficial tumoristatic effects .
proline- , glutamic acid- and leucine-rich protein-1/modulator of non-genomic activity of estrogen receptor ( er ) ( pelp1/mnar ) is a novel nuclear receptor ( nr ) co-activator that plays an essential role in the actions of er .
emerging findings suggest that pelp1/mnar is a novel proto-oncogene , whose expression is deregulated in several hormone-responsive cancers , including endometrial cancer .
in this study , we demonstrate that pelp1/mnar is widely expressed in endometrial carcinoma cell lines .
to investigate its possible role in endometrial carcinoma progression , we adopted an rna interference technology to downregulate pelp1/mnar expression in ishikawa endometrial carcinoma cells .
pelp1/mnar downregulation substantially reduced cell proliferation , and the cells in which pelp1/mnar expression was knocked down also exhibited a decreased migration and invasion ability , as shown by boyden chamber and invasion assays .
the results showed that the expression of mmp-2 and mmp-9 was also decreased .
these results suggest that pelp1/mnar plays a role in endometrial cancer progression and metastasis , and that pelp1/mnar may be a potential therapeutic target for endometrial cancer .
objective to construct the eukaryotic expression vector for max interacting protein 1 ( mxi1 ) .
methods the full length cdna of mxi1 gene obtained from fetal lymphocyte and kg1 cells were inserted into plasmid pds-red2-n1 respectively to generate pds-red2-n1/mri1 ( wild/mutation type ) .
then the recombinant vector was transfected into cos-7 cells via liposome. 48 hours post transfection , mrna of mri1 gene was detected by rt-pcr and mxi1 protein expression was detected by flow cytometry and fluorescence microscope in the cos-7 cells .
results the eukaryotic expression vector of mxi1 was constructed and transfected into eukaryotic cells successfully .
the expression of red fluorescence protein in the transfected cos-7 cells was observed under fluorescence microscope which implied the expression of mxi1 .
the transfect efficiency of both wild and mutation type were in a high level in 3 days after transfected , which lasted to 6 d .
rt-pcr amplified the total rna extracted from the transfected cos-7 cells could find increased mrna level of mxi1 gene .
conclusion we successfully constructed the eukaryote expression vector for mri1 gene ; cos-7 cells transfected with the vector via liposome could express mxi1 protein .
these could be useful for the further study of the myc gene modulation .
tgf- derived from bone fuels melanoma bone metastases by inducing tumor secretion of prometastatic factors that act on bone cells to change the skeletal microenvironment .
halofuginone is a plant alkaloid derivative that blocks tgf- signaling with antiangiogenic and antiproliferative properties .
here , we show for the first time that halofuginone therapy decreases development and progression of bone metastasis caused by melanoma cells through the inhibition of tgf- signaling .
halofuginone treatment of human melanoma cells inhibited cell proliferation , phosphorylation of smad proteins in response to tgf- , and tgf--induced smad-driven transcription .
in addition , halofuginone reduced expression of tgf- target genes that enhance bone metastases , including pthrp , ctgf , cxcr4 , and il11 .
also , cell apoptosis was increased in response to halofuginone .
in nude mice inoculated with 1205lu melanoma cells , a preventive protocol with halofuginone inhibited bone metastasis .
the beneficial effects of halofuginone treatment were comparable with those observed with other anti-tgf- strategies , including systemic administration of sd208 , a small-molecule inhibitor of tgf- receptor i kinase , or forced overexpression of smad7 , a negative regulator of tgf- signaling .
furthermore , mice with established bone metastases treated with halofuginone had significantly less osteolysis than mice receiving placebo assessed by radiography .
thus , halofuginone is also effective in reducing the progression of melanoma bone metastases .
moreover , halofuginone treatment reduced melanoma metastasis to the brain , showing the potential of this novel treatment against cancer metastasis .
cancer res ; 72(23) ; 6247-56. 2012 aacr .
aim to assess the prognostic significance of nuclear factor-b ( nf-b ) and its target genes in gastric cancer .
methods the tumor tissues of 115 patients with gastric cancer were immunohistochemically evaluated using monoclonal antibodies against nf-b rela .
preoperative serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) , interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) were assessed via enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent assay .
c-reactive protein ( crp ) and serum amyloid a ( saa ) were measured via immunotrubidimetry .
results positive rate of nf-b rela was 42.6% .
nf-b rela expression in tumor tissues was also related to serum levels of il-6 ( p = 0.044 ) and crp ( p = 0.010 ) .
il-6 , saa , crp were related to depth of invasion , vegf and saa were correlated with lymph node metastasis .
il-6 , vegf , saa and crp were related to the stage .
univariate analysis demonstrated that immunostaining of nf-b rela , levels of il-6 , vegf , saa were significantly related with both disease free survival and overall survival ( os ) .
multivariate analysis verified that nf-b rela [ hazard ratio ( hr ) : 3.40 , p = 0.024 ] and saa ( hr : 3.39 , p = 0.045 ) were independently associated with os .
conclusion increased expression of nf-b rela and high levels of serum saa were associated with poor os in gastric cancer patients .
the suppression of mapk and oxidative stress could be an important anti-inflammatory mechanism .
fucoidan regulates mapk activity in several cell lines .
however , the mechanism for the anti-inflammatory and oxidative stress effect of low molecular weight fucoidan ( lmwf ) is poorly understood in raw264.7 cells .
the objective of this study was to examine the critical role of lmwf during lps-induced inflammation in raw264.7 cells .
to determine the potential role of lmwf , we analysed pro-inflammatory cytokine , transcription factor , inflammation-related and oxidative stress related protein expression in vitro during lps-induced inflammation in raw264.7 cells .
in this study , we demonstrated the anti-inflammatory effects of lmwf on lps-induced inflammation in macrophages through the regulation of signalling pathways , including its effect on the attenuation of inflammatory cytokines , such as il-1 , il-1 and tnf- , and the degradation of phosphorylated p38 mapk , erk1/2 and jnk .
this study also demonstrates that lmwf might block no as well as the expression of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) , which subsequently inhibits the inos and cox-2 expression induced by lps .
based on these findings , we suggest that lmwf might have great potential as an external pathogen prevention and intervention agent for inflammatory diseases .
nutrient deprivation based on the loss of essential amino acids by catabolic enzymes in the microenvironment is a critical means to control inflammatory responses and immune tolerance .
here we report the novel finding that tph-1 ( tryptophan hydroxylase-1 ) , a synthase which catalyses the conversion of tryptophan to serotonin and exhausts tryptophan , is a potent regulator of immunity .
in models of skin allograft tolerance , tumor growth , and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis , tph-1 deficiency breaks allograft tolerance , induces tumor remission , and intensifies neuroinflammation , respectively .
all of these effects of tph-1 deficiency are independent of its downstream product serotonin .
because mast cells ( mcs ) appear to be the major source of tph-1 and restoration of tph-1 in the mc compartment in vivo compensates for the defect , these experiments introduce a fundamentally new mechanism of mc-mediated immune suppression that broadly impacts multiple arms of immunity .
this study is to investigate the effects of bortezomib on the angiogenesis of mesenchymal stem cells ( mscs ) .
we examined the effects of bortezomib on the cellular proliferation , migration , and capillary network formation of huvecs cocultured with cms of mscs .
we found that bortezomib inhibited the cellular proliferation and tube formation of huvecs cocultured with cms in a dose-dependent fashion .
bortezomib also prevented the migration of huvecs cocultured with cms .
in addition , bortezomib dose-dependently inhibited the growth of mscs and prevented the production of angiogenic factors including vegf ( vascular endothelial growth factor ) , hgf ( hepatocyte growth factor ) , and bfgf ( basic fibroblast growth factor ) in mscs .
in conclusion , bortezomib prevented the angiogenesis mediated by mscs .
retinoic acid ( ra)-induced differentiation therapy is partially successful in neuroblastoma treatment .
we found that a novel combination of vanadium-based ptp inhibitors with ra induced extensive differentiation in neuroblastoma cells .
in contrast to ra alone , this led to either permanent differentiation or senescence after 14days of combined treatment followed by chemical removal .
senescence was dependent in part on synergistic akt and erk activation. p21 was also strongly induced , but in contrast to oncogene-induced senescence , p53 was not activated .
vanadium-based inhibitors thus serve strongly to enhance ra's ability to drive differentiation and a novel form of senescence in neuroblastoma cells .
chronic inflammation is a critical component in breast cancer progression .
pro-inflammatory mediators along with growth/survival factors within the tumor microenvironment potentiate the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines ( il-1 , il-6 , tnf- ) , chemotactic cytokines and their receptors ( cxcr4 , cxcl12 , cxcl8 ) and angiogenic factors ( vegf ) that often overcome the effect of anti-inflammatory molecules ( il-4 , il-10 ) thus evading the host's antitumor immunity .
detailed knowledge , therefore , of the regulatory mechanisms determining cytokine levels is essential to understand the pathogenesis of breast cancer .
hif-1 and nf-b transcription factors are important players for the establishment of a pro-inflammatory and potentially oncogenic environment .
hif-1 is the key mediator of the cellular response to oxygen deprivation and induces the expression of genes involved in survival and angiogenesis within solid hypoxic tumors .
the expression of these genes is often modulated by the p53 tumor suppressor protein that induces apoptosis or cell cycle arrest in neoplastic cells .
functional crosstalk between hif-1 and p53 pathways mediated by modulators shared between the two transcription factors such as src-1 and sirt-1 differentially regulate the expression of distinct subsets of their target genes under variable stress conditions .
in an attempt to shed light on the complex regulatory mechanisms involved in cancer-related inflammation , we investigated the role of the two common p53 and hif-1 co-regulators src-1 and sirt-1 , in the expression of the highly potent metastatic chemokine receptor cxcr4 .
both src-1 and sirt-1 overexpression in dsfx-treated mcf-7 cells reduced cxcr4 cellular levels implying that both co-regulators are crucial factors in the determination of the metastatic potential of breast cancer cells .
given the important role of cxcr4 in cancer metastasis , microenvironmental factors that modulate cxcr4 may have an impact on the process of tumor expansion .
hypoxia is a common feature of solid tumors and a significant microenvironmental factor that drives aggressive behavior .
cxcr4 is upregulated in several cancer cells under hypoxic conditions , suggesting a relationship between tumor hypoxia and cxcr4 .
however , the role of hypoxia in regulating cxcr4 in gastric cancer remains poorly understood .
kato iii gastric cancer cells were exposed to hypoxia or normoxia .
cxcr4 expression in cells transfected with shrna specific for hif-1 was investigated by western blotting and flow cytometry .
wound healing , migration and invasion assays were used to assess cell motility and the chemotactic response to cxcl12 , a major cxcr4 ligand .
cxcr4 expression at the protein level and in the cell membrane was significantly increased in katoiii cells following exposure to hypoxia .
this upregulation of cxcr4 was implicated in increased cell motility and enhanced chemotactic responses ( migration and invasion ) to cxcl12 treatment in vitro .
the increases in cxcr4 expression and metastatic potential in gastric cancer cells exposed to hypoxia were blocked by hif-1-specific shrna .
our results indicate that hypoxia upregulates cxcr4 in gastric cancer cells in a hif-1-dependent manner , and that upregulation of cxcr4 plays a role in cancer cell migration and invasion .
thus , disrupting the hypoxia-hif-1-cxcr4 axis could be an attractive therapeutic strategy for the treatment of gastric cancer .
advanced or metastatic prostate cancer is treated by androgen deprivation ; however , patients inevitably relapse with castration-resistant prostate cancer ( crpc ) .
crpc remains dependent on androgen receptor ( ar ) signaling , which may include constitutive , ligand-independent action of naturally occurring ar splice variants .
for example , the ar splice variant ar3 ( also termed ar-v7 ) is expressed in crpc and is linked to poor prognosis .
vav3 , a rho gtpase guanine nucleotide exchange factor , is an ar coactivator that is up-regulated in human prostate cancer compared with benign tissue and in preclinical models of crpc .
vav3 confers castration-resistant growth to androgen-dependent human prostate cancer cells .
despite the importance of ar coactivators in promoting crpc , the potential role of these regulatory proteins in modulating ar splice variant activity is unknown .
we examined the contributions of vav3 to ar activity in two crpc cell lines that naturally express relatively high levels of vav3 and ar3 .
vav3 or ar3 knockdown greatly attenuated cell proliferation , soft agar growth , and ligand-independent ar activity .
vav3 potently enhanced the transcriptional activity of ar3 and another clinically relevant ar splice variant , arv567es .
vav3 knockdown resulted in lowered nuclear ar3 levels , whereas total ar3 levels remained similar .
conversely , overexpression of vav3 resulted in increased nuclear ar3 .
coimmunoprecipitation revealed that ar3 and vav3 interact .
these novel data demonstrating physical and functional interactions between vav3 , a unique ar coactivator , and an ar splice variant provide insights into the mechanisms by which vav3 exploits and enhances ar signaling in the progression to crpc .
tumor cells trigger angiogenesis through overexpression of various angiogenic factors including vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) and angiopoietin 1 ( ang1 ) .
therefore , inhibition of the expression of both vegf and ang1 , the initial step of tumor angiogenesis , is a promising strategy for cancer chemoprevention and therapy .
grape seed proanthocyanidins ( gsps ) are widely consumed dietary supplements that have antitumor activity .
due to their polymeric structure , gsps are poorly absorbed along the gastrointestinal tract and can reach the colon at high concentrations , allowing these chemicals to act as chemopreventive agents for colon cancer .
in the present study , we found that gsps inhibited colon tumor-induced angiogenesis and , thus , the growth of colon tumor xenografts on the chick chorioallantoic membranes .
the mechanisms of their action were related to inhibiting the expression of both vegf and ang1 through scavenging reactive oxygen species .
previous studies have demonstrated that the chemopreventive effects of gsps on colon cancer are associated with their growth inhibitory and apoptosis-inducing effects .
our results demonstrate another mechanism by which gsps inhibit colon tumor growth , which will be helpful for developing gsps as a pharmacologically safe angiopreventive agent against colorectal cancer .
protein tyrosine kinase 6 ( ptk6 ) is a non-receptor tyrosine kinase expressed in epithelial cancers .
disruption of ptk6 decreases azoxymethane-induced colon tumorigenesis in mice by preventing signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 activation .
relocalization of ptk6 in prostate cancers contributes to increased growth .
although not expressed in normal breast or ovary , ptk6 promotes anchorage-independent survival of breast and ovarian tumor cells .
we identified several potential ptk6 substrates in the human sw620 colon cancer cell line using mass spectrometry , including fak ( focal adhesion kinase ) .
we show that fak is a direct substrate of ptk6 in vitro and in vivo .
expression of membrane-targeted active ptk6 ( palm-ptk6-yf ) induces constitutive activation of fak and cell morphology changes , which are independent of src family kinases in src-/- , yes-/- , fyn-/- ( syf ) mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( mefs ) .
palm-ptk6-yf expressing syf cells are transformed and overcome contact inhibition , form colonies in transformation assays , proliferate in suspension and form tumors in a xenograft model .
expression of fak and palm-ptk6-yf in fak-/- mefs synergistically activates akt and protects cells against anoikis .
however , expression of palm-ptk6-yf in akt1/2-/- mefs fails to protect cells from anoikis , indicating akt is critical in ptk6 and fak-mediated survival signaling .
in a conditional pten knockout murine prostate cancer model , we identify prostate epithelial cells with enhanced activation of endogenous ptk6 and fak at the plasma membrane .
knockdown of ptk6 in the pc3 human prostate cancer cell line disrupts fak and akt activation and promotes anoikis , which can be rescued by exogenous expression of fak .
our data reveal important roles for a ptk6-fak-akt signaling axis in promoting anchorage-independent cell survival .
metastasis is a complex process utilizing both tumor-cell-autonomous properties and host-derived factors , including cellular immunity .
we have previously shown that germline polymorphisms can modify tumor cell metastatic capabilities through cell-autonomous mechanisms .
however , how metastasis susceptibility genes interact with the tumor stroma is incompletely understood .
here , we employ a complex genetic screen to identify cadm1 as a novel modifier of metastasis .
we demonstrate that cadm1 can specifically suppress metastasis without affecting primary tumor growth .
unexpectedly , cadm1 did not alter tumor-cell-autonomous properties such as proliferation or invasion , but required the host's adaptive immune system to affect metastasis .
the metastasis-suppressing effect of cadm1 was lost in mice lacking t cell-mediated immunity , which was partially phenocopied by depleting cd8(+) t cells in immune-competent mice .
our data show a novel function for cadm1 in suppressing metastasis by sensitizing tumor cells to immune surveillance mechanisms , and this is the first report of a heritable metastasis susceptibility gene engaging tumor non-autonomous factors .
it is known that sperm samples from recurrent pregnancy loss ( rpl ) couples have an increase in their sperm dna fragmentation ( sdf ) , but no studies have been performed in order to identify differences between single stranded sdf ( sssdf ) and double stranded sdf ( dssdf ) in these patients .
this could be relevant because the type of dna damage could have different effects .
semen samples were classified attending their clinical status : 25 fertile donors and 20 rpl patients with at least two unexplained first trimester miscarriages .
sdf was analysed using alkaline and neutral comet assay , scd test and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis ( pfge ) , and roc analysis including data from 105 more infertile patients ( n=150 ) was performed to establish predictive threshold values .
sdf for alkaline and neutral comet , and the scd test was analysed in these categories of individuals .
data revealed the presence of two subgroups within fertile donors .
the values obtained were 21.109.13 , 23.3510.45 and 12.314.31 , respectively , for fertile donors with low values for both sssdf and dssdf ; 27.8612.64 , 80.6912.67 and 12.435.22 , for fertile donors with low sssdf and high dssdf ; and 33.6115.50 , 84.6411.28 and 19.286.05 , for unexplained rpl patients , also showing a low sssdf and high dssdf profile .
this latter profile was seen in 85% of unexplained rpl and 33% of fertile donors , suggesting that it may be associated to a male risk factor for undergoing rpl .
roc analysis regarding recurrent miscarriage set the cut-off value at 77.50% of dsdna sdf .
pfge for low sssdf and high dssdf profile samples and positive controls treated with dnase , to induce dsdna breaks , showed a more intense band of about 48 kb , which fits the toroid model of dna compaction in sperm , pointing out that some nuclease activity may be affecting their sperm dna in rpl patients .
this work identifies a very specific sdf profile related to the paternal risk of having rpl .
perlecan domain v ( dv ) promotes brain angiogenesis by inducing vegf release from brain endothelial cells ( becs ) following stroke .
in this study , we define the specific mechanism of dv interaction with the (5)(1) integrin , identify the downstream signal transduction pathway , and further investigate the functional significance of resultant vegf release .
interestingly , we found that the lg3 portion of dv , which has been suggested to possess most of dv's angio-modulatory activity outside of the brain , binds poorly to (5)(1) and induces less bec proliferation compared to full length dv .
additionally , we implicate dv's dgr sequence as an important element for the interaction of dv with (5)(1) .
furthermore , we investigated the importance of akt and erk signaling in dv-induced vegf expression and secretion .
we show that dv increases the phosphorylation of erk , which leads to subsequent activation and stabilization of eif4e and hif-1 .
inhibition of erk activity by u0126 suppressed dv-induced expression and secretion of vegr in becs .
while dv was capable of phosphorylating akt we show that akt phosphorylation does not play a role in dv's induction of vegf expression or secretion using two separate inhibitors , ly294002 and akt iv .
lastly , we demonstrate that vegf activity is critical for dv increases in bec proliferation , as well as angiogenesis in a bec-neuronal co-culture system .
collectively , our findings expand our understanding of dv's mechanism of action on becs , and further support its potential as a novel stroke therapy .
although tumor-associated macrophages ( tams ) are involved in tumor growth and metastasis , the mechanisms controlling their pro-tumoral activities remain largely unknown .
the transcription factor c-myc has been recently shown to regulate in vitro human macrophage polarization and be expressed in macrophages infiltrating human tumors .
in this study , we exploited the predominant expression of lysm in myeloid cells to generate c-myc(fl/fl) lysm(cre/+) mice , which lack c-myc in macrophages , to investigate the role of macrophage c-myc expression in cancer .
under steady-state conditions , immune system parameters in c-myc(fl/fl) lysm(cre/+) mice appeared normal , including the abundance of different subsets of bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells , precursors and circulating cells , macrophage density , and immune organ structure .
in a model of melanoma , however , tams lacking c-myc displayed a delay in maturation and showed an attenuation of pro-tumoral functions ( e.g. , reduced expression of vegf , mmp9 , and hif1 ) that was associated with impaired tissue remodeling and angiogenesis and limited tumor growth in c-myc(fl/fl) lysm(cre/+) mice .
macrophage c-myc deletion also diminished fibrosarcoma growth .
these data identify c-myc as a positive regulator of the pro-tumoral program of tams and suggest c-myc inactivation as an attractive target for anti-cancer therapy .
the sr/cr mouse phenotype , first described in 1999 in balb/c and later bred into c57bl/6 mice , is resistant to cancer formation following high doses of cancer cells administered intraperitoneally .
the tumor cell targeting and destruction mechanisms have not been identified .
by fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis , the immune response of sr/cr mice after intraperitoneal injection of cancer cells was investigated and compared with parent strain mice .
a massive influx of leukocytes into the peritoneal cavity was found .
a large fraction of these leukocytes were polymorphonuclear granulocytes , macrophages and natural killer cells .
a relative decrease in influx of b-cells compared with controls was demonstrated .
increased proportions of leukocytes belonging to the innate immune system were also demonstrated in splenocytes of sr/cr mice .
cytospins of peritoneal fluid from sr/cr mice after cancer cell injection showed formations of immune cells morphologically resembling polymorphonuclear granulocytes and macrophages adjoining the cancer cells .
the results point to the potential involvement of innate immune cells in cancer immunology .
our data support migration of polymorphonuclear granulocytes , macrophages and nk cells into the peritoneum of the sr/cr mouse in response to intraperitoneal injection of s180 cancer cells .
the cell composition of spleens of sr/cr mice reflected the differential regulation of the innate immune cells in peritoneal exudates .
both peritoneal exudates and the spleens of sr/cr mice contained decreased proportions of b-cells compared with balb/c and c57bl/6 mice .
we reproduce important aspects of previous published data and further extend them by showing differentially regulated populations of splenocytes including b-lymphocytes in sr/cr mice compared with parent strain controls .
importantly , this differentially regulated immune response of sr/cr mice could not be found in response to challenge with the lymphoma cell line el-4 .
background glioblastoma is the most common and most aggressive form of malignant glioma and is very difficult to treat .
controlling tumour cell invasion and angiogenesis is essential to improve the prognosis of glioblastoma patients .
since constitutive activation of nuclear factor-b ( nf-b ) is necessary for tumour progression , nf-b may be an important pharmacological target for this disease .
our study aimed to evaluate the antitumour effects of parthenolide , a nf-b inhibitor , in two human glioblastoma cell lines ( u87mg and u373 ) and in glioblastoma xenografts .
furthermore , we aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying these effects .
methods the anti-invasive and anti-angiogenic effects of parthenolide were analysed using in vitro invasion and angiogenesis assays .
parthenolide-induced growth inhibition of glioblastoma cells in vitro was determined using the mtt ( methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium ) assay .
in addition , the effect of parthenolide on orthotropic implantation in vivo was evaluated using an intracerebral human glioblastoma xenograft model .
results we found that parthenolide suppresses proliferation , invasion , and tumour- induced angiogenesis of glioblastoma cells .
molecular studies demonstrated that parthenolide suppresses gene and protein expression of angiogenic factors .
furthermore , parthenolide reduced akt phosphorylation and activated mitochondrial signalling , suggesting that the antitumour function of parthenolide may be mediated not only by the inhibition of nf-b but also by the inhibition of akt signalling and the activation of apoptotic proteins .
parthenolide suppressed neovascularity and tumour growth in glioblastoma xenografts .
conclusion the present study identified parthenolide as a new therapeutic agent for glioblastomas .
overexpression of cyclin d1 is believed to endow mammary epithelial cells ( mec ) with a proliferative advantage by virtue of its contribution to prb inactivation .
accordingly , abrogation of the kinase-dependent function of cyclin d1 is sufficient to render mice resistant to breast cancer initiated by erbb2 .
here , we report that mouse cyclin d1(ke/ke) mecs ( deficient in cyclin d1 activity ) upregulate an autophagy-like process but fail to implement erbb2-induced senescence in vivo .
in addition , immortalized cyclin d1(ke/ke) mecs retain high rates of autophagy and reduced erbb2-mediated transformation in vitro .
however , highlighting its dual role during tumorigenesis , downregulation of autophagy led to an increase in senescence in cyclin d1(ke/ke) mecs .
autophagy upregulation was also confirmed in human mammary epithelial cells ( hmec ) subjected to genetic and pharmacologic inhibition of cyclin d1 activity and , similar to our murine system , simultaneous inhibition of cdk4/6 and autophagy in hmecs enhanced the senescence response .
collectively , our findings suggest a previously unrecognized function of cyclin d1 in suppressing autophagy in the mammary epithelium .
cancer res ; 72(24) ; 6477-89. 2012 aacr .
the orphan receptor tr3 is an important regulator of cell proliferation and apoptosis .
however , whether tr3 is involved in regulating the stem-like properties of cancer cells remains unknown .
the present study shows that tr3 expression is increased in gastric tumorsphere cells and is positively correlated with cancer stem cell ( csc ) characteristics .
knocking down tr3 leads to the suppression of its stem-like properties in both gastric cancer cells and tumorsphere cells .
this process involves the decreased expression of the stemness-related genes oct-4 and nanog and the invasion-related gene mmp-9 .
we further identify nanog as a new target for the transcription factor tr3 .
together , these data demonstrate for the first time that tr3 is essential for the maintenance of stem-like properties in human gastric cancer cells and implicate tr3 as a new therapeutic target for gastric cancer .
the recent approval of a prostate cancer vaccine has renewed hope for anticancer immunotherapies .
however , the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment may limit the effectiveness of current immunotherapies .
antiangiogenic agents have the potential to modulate the tumor microenvironment and improve immunotherapy , but they often are used at high doses in the clinic to prune tumor vessels and paradoxically may compromise various therapies .
here , we demonstrate that targeting tumor vasculature with lower vascular-normalizing doses , but not high antivascular/antiangiogenic doses , of an anti-vegf receptor 2 ( vegfr2 ) antibody results in a more homogeneous distribution of functional tumor vessels .
furthermore , lower doses are superior to the high doses in polarizing tumor-associated macrophages from an immune inhibitory m2-like phenotype toward an immune stimulatory m1-like phenotype and in facilitating cd4(+) and cd8(+) t-cell tumor infiltration .
based on this mechanism , scheduling lower-dose anti-vegfr2 therapy with t-cell activation induced by a whole cancer cell vaccine therapy enhanced anticancer efficacy in a cd8(+) t-cell-dependent manner in both immune-tolerant and immunogenic murine breast cancer models .
these findings indicate that vascular-normalizing lower doses of anti-vegfr2 antibody can reprogram the tumor microenvironment away from immunosuppression toward potentiation of cancer vaccine therapies .
given that the combinations of high doses of bevacizumab with chemotherapy have not improved overall survival of breast cancer patients , our study suggests a strategy to use antiangiogenic agents in breast cancer more effectively with active immunotherapy and potentially other anticancer therapies .
neural stem cells ( nscs ) are considered to be the cell of origin of glioblastoma multiforme ( gbm ) .
however , the genetic alterations that transform nscs into glioma-initiating cells remain elusive .
using a unique transposon mutagenesis strategy that mutagenizes nscs in culture , followed by additional rounds of mutagenesis to generate tumors in vivo , we have identified genes and signaling pathways that can transform nscs into glioma-initiating cells .
mobilization of sleeping beauty transposons in nscs induced the immortalization of astroglial-like cells , which were then able to generate tumors with characteristics of the mesenchymal subtype of gbm on transplantation , consistent with a potential astroglial origin for mesenchymal gbm .
sequence analysis of transposon insertion sites from tumors and immortalized cells identified more than 200 frequently mutated genes , including human gbm-associated genes , such as met and nf1 , and made it possible to discriminate between genes that function during astroglial immortalization vs. later stages of tumor development .
we also functionally validated five gbm candidate genes using a previously undescribed high-throughput method .
finally , we show that even clonally related tumors derived from the same immortalized line have acquired distinct combinations of genetic alterations during tumor development , suggesting that tumor formation in this model system involves competition among genetically variant cells , which is similar to the darwinian evolutionary processes now thought to generate many human cancers .
this mutagenesis strategy is faster and simpler than conventional transposon screens and can potentially be applied to any tissue stem/progenitor cells that can be grown and differentiated in vitro .
background : the immune system has been shown to play an important role in gastrointestinal stromal tumor ( gist ) .
the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio ( nlr ) in blood is an easily assessable parameter of systemic inflammatory response .
the aim of this study was to determine whether the nlr is prognostic in gist .
methods : a total of 339 previously untreated patients with primary , localized gist operated at our institution between 1995 and 2010 were identified from a prospectively collected sarcoma database .
nlr was assessed preoperatively .
patients who received adjuvant imatinib treatment were excluded from the analysis ( n=64 ) .
cox regression models were calculated and correlation analyses were performed .
results : on univariate analysis , nlr was associated with recurrence-free survival ( rfs ) ( p=0.003 , hazard ratio 3.3 , 95% confidence interval 1.5-7.4 ) .
patients with a low nlr had a 1- and 5-year rfs of 98 and 91% , compared with 89 and 76% in those with a high nlr .
the median rfs was not reached .
positive correlations were found between nlr and mitotic rate ( pearson correlation coefficient [ r]=0.15 , p=0.03 ) , and nlr and tumor size ( r=0.36 , p=0.0001 ) .
rfs in patients with a gist&gt;5cm with low nlr was significantly longer compared to patients with high nlr ( p=0.002 ) .
flow cytometry analysis of freshly obtained gists revealed that neutrophils constituted a minimal percentage of intratumoral immune cells .
conclusions : nlr is a surrogate for high-risk tumor features .
elevated blood nlr appears to represent systemic inflammation in patients with high-risk gist .
the epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) is a fundamental process governing morphogenesis in multicellular organisms and has recently been implicated in promoting carcinoma invasion and metastasis .
besides their therapeutic effects , accumulating evidences suggest that chemotherapeutic agents also induced emt and enhanced the malignancy of treated cancer cells ; however , the mechanism(s) still remains unclear .
here , we investigated the role of -catenin signaling in doxorubicin ( dox)-induced emt in human gastric cancer cell line bgc-823 .
we found that the transient treatment of dox induced emt and enhanced the in vitro migration ability of cancer cells .
we also found that -catenin signaling was activated upon dox treatment .
inhibition of -catenin by indomethacin ( indo ) or sirna suppressed dox-induced emt and decreased cancer cell migration ability .
our results showed that -catenin signaling was critical to dox-induced emt .
indo and other -catenin inhibitors may have a potential implication in prevention of gastric cancer metastasis .
background growth regulation by estrogen in breast cancer ( greb1 ) was an estrogen receptor ( er ) target gene , and greb1 expression inversely correlated with her2 status , possibly as a surrogate marker for er status and a predictor for tamoxifen resistance in breast cancer patients .
in the present study , we examine the function and regulation of greb1 in breast cancer , with the goal to develop greb1 as a biomarker in breast cancer with de novo and acquired tamoxifen resistance .
methods we overexpressed greb1 using adenovirus containing the full length greb1 cdna ( ad-greb1 ) in breast cancer cell lines .
the soft agar assay was used as a measure of anchorage independent growth .
the effects of greb1 on cell proliferation in mcf-7 cells transduced with ad-greb1 were also measured by the me olic activity using alamarblue assay .
we tested whether there was interaction between stat3 and er , which could repress greb1 expression by immunoprecipitation assay .
the effects of il-6/jak/stat3 cascade activation on estrogen-induced greb1 promoter activity were determined by luciferase assay and those on gene expression were measured by real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( qrt-pcr ) .
results we found that the ability of breast cancer cells to grow in soft agar is enhanced following greb1 transfection .
in mcf-7 cells transduced with ad-greb1 or transfected with sirna greb1 , the metabolic activity was increased or completely abolished , suggesting that greb1 may function as a growth promoter in breast cancer .
e2 treatment increased greb1 promoter luciferase activity .
il-6 inhibited e2-induced greb1 transcription activity and greb1 mrna expression .
constitutively expressing active stat3 construct ( stat3-c ) dramatically decreased greb1 transcription .
conclusions these data indicate that overexpression of greb1 promotes cell proliferation and increases the clonogenic ability in breast cancer cells .
moreover , il6/stat3 modulates estrogen-induced greb1 transcriptional activity in breast cancer cells .
widespread changes in gene expression drive tumorigenesis , yet our knowledge of how aberrant epigenomic and transcriptome profiles arise in cancer cells is poorly understood .
here , we demonstrate that metabolic transformation plays an important role .
butyrate is the primary energy source of normal colonocytes and is metabolized to acetyl-coa , which was shown to be important not only for energetics but also for hat activity .
due to the warburg effect , cancerous colonocytes rely on glucose as their primary energy source , so butyrate accumulated and functioned as an hdac inhibitor .
although both mechanisms increased histone acetylation , different target genes were upregulated .
consequently , butyrate stimulated the proliferation of normal colonocytes and cancerous colonocytes when the warburg effect was prevented from occurring , whereas it inhibited the proliferation of cancerous colonocytes undergoing the warburg effect .
these findings link a common metabolite to epigenetic mechanisms that are differentially utilized by normal and cancerous cells because of their inherent metabolic differences .
tnf , an inflammatory cytokine that is enriched in the tumor microenvironment , promotes tumor growth and subverts innate immune responses to cancer cells .
we previously reported that tumors implanted in tnf receptor-deficient ( tnfr-/- ) mice are spontaneously rejected ; however , the molecular mechanisms underlying this rejection are unclear .
here we report that tnf signaling drives the peripheral accumulation of myeloid-derived suppressor cells ( mdscs ) .
mdscs expand extensively during inflammation and tumor progression in mice and humans and can enhance tumor growth by repressing t cell-mediated antitumor responses .
peripheral accumulation of mdscs was drastically impaired in tnfr-/- mice .
signaling of tnfr-2 , but not tnfr-1 , promoted mdsc survival through upregulation of cellular flice-inhibitory protein ( c-flip ) and inhibition of caspase-8 activity .
loss of tnfrs impaired the induction of mdscs from bone marrow cells , but this could be reversed by treatment with caspase inhibitors .
these results demonstrate that tnfr-2 signaling promotes mdsc survival and accumulation and helps tumor cells evade the immune system .
this study intended to investigate the expression of the zeb1 and e-cadherin proteins in lung squamous cell carcinoma ( lscc ) tissues and to examine the clinicopathological correlation between protein levels and lscc .
rt-pcr and western blot were used to examine the expression of zeb1 and e-cadherin mrnas and proteins in lscc tissues as well as in adjacent normal tissues , and then analyze the relationship between the clinicopathological characteristics and the expression changes of zeb1 and e-cadherin mrnas in lscc .
in addition , rnai was used to knockdown the expression of the zeb1 gene in human hcc827 cells ; subsequently , changes in the invasive ability of the resultant cells were studied .
the positive rates of zeb1 and e-cadherin mrnas in lscc tissues were 69.2 and 38.5% , respectively .
they differed significantly from the corresponding positive rates in the adjacent normal lung tissues ( 15.4 and 80.8% , p&lt;0.05 ) .
there was a negative correlation between the protein levels of zeb1 and e-cadherin in lscc tissues ( r=-0.714 , p&lt;0.001 ) ; in addition , it was found that zeb1 protein expression in lscc tissues was significantly higher than that in the neighboring normal lung tissues ( p&lt;0.05 ) , and its expression was also significantly higher in patients with lymph node metastases and distant metastases compared to those patients without metastatic disease ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
on the contrary , e-cadherin expression was significantly lower in lscc tissues than that in the neighboring normal tissue ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
it was lower in patients with lymph node metastasis and distant metastasis compared to patients without metastatic disease ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
however , the expression of zeb1 and e-cadherin was independent of gender , age , tumor size , or tumor differentiation level ( p&gt;0.05 ) .
transfection of zeb1 sirna into hcc827 cells significantly reduced the zeb1 protein level ( p&lt;0.01 ) and significantly elevated e-cadherin levels ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
moreover , significantly less zeb1 sirna-transfected cells migrated through transwell chambers in the lscc tissue than that in the control groups ( untransfected or transfected with control sirna , p&lt;0.01 ) .
the expression of the zeb1 gene in lscc tissues is downregulated with the expression of e-cadherin .
on the other hand , the expression of sirna against zeb1 promotes e-cadherin expression and suppresses the invasive ability conferred by e-cadherin .
in conclusion , our data suggested that overexpression of the zeb1 gene is possibly associated with the occurrence , development , invasion of lscc .
this study examined the possible role of p120ctn in the pathogenesis and development of pancreatic cancer .
panc-1 cells , a kind of human pancreatic carcinoma cell line , were cultured in this study. p120ctn was immunocytochemically detected in panc-1 cells .
the recombinant lentivirus vector was constructed to knock down the p120ctn expression of panc-1 cells .
real-time quantitative pcr ( rq-pcr ) and western blotting were used to determine the expression of p120ctn and e-cadherin in panc-1 cells after p120ctn knockdown .
the adhesion , invasion and migration capacity of panc-1 cells after p120ctn knockdown was detected by cell adhesion , invasion and migration assays .
cell growth was measured by the mtt method .
cell cycle and apoptosis were analyzed by fluorescence-activated cell sorting .
the results showed that p120ctn knockdown led to significantly down-regulated e-cadherin and a reduced cell-to-cell adhesion ability in panc-1 cells. shrna-mediated knockdown of p120ctn reduced invasion and migration capacity of panc-1 cells , inhibited cell growth , caused a significant decrease in the percentage of cells in g(1) , an increase in s , and promoted apoptosis of panc-1 cells .
it was concluded that p120ctn plays a pivotal role in the proliferation and metastasis of pancreatic carcinoma , suggesting that p120ctn is a novel target for pancreatic carcinoma treatment .
cancer can be envisioned as a metabolic disease driven by pressure selection and intercellular cooperativeness .
together with anaerobic glycolysis , the warburg effect , formally corresponding to uncoupling glycolysis from oxidative phosphorylation , directly participates in cancer aggressiveness , supporting both tumor progression and dissemination .
the transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor-1 ( hif-1 ) is a key contributor to glycolysis .
it stimulates the expression of glycolytic transporters and enzymes supporting high rate of glycolysis .
in this study , we addressed the reverse possibility of a metabolic control of hif-1 in tumor cells .
we report that lactate , the end-product of glycolysis , inhibits prolylhydroxylase 2 activity and activates hif-1 in normoxic oxidative tumor cells but not in warburg-phenotype tumor cells which also expressed lower basal levels of hif-1 .
these data were confirmed using genotypically matched oxidative and mitochondria-depleted glycolytic tumor cells as well as several different wild-type human tumor cell lines of either metabolic phenotype .
lactate activates hif-1 and triggers tumor angiogenesis and tumor growth in vivo , an activity that we found to be under the specific upstream control of the lactate transporter monocarboxylate transporter 1 ( mct1 ) expressed in tumor cells .
because mct1 also gates lactate-fueled tumor cell respiration and mediates pro-angiogenic lactate signaling in endothelial cells , mct1 inhibition is confirmed as an attractive anticancer strategy in which a single drug may target multiple tumor-promoting pathways .
a metaphase chromosome analysis method was used to evaluate the mutagenic activity of volatile petroleum fractions in chronically intoxicated rats .
the findings indicate that chronic inhalation exposure of the rats to volatile petroleum fractions at different concentrations results in a significant ( 2.5-fold ) increase , compared to the spontaneous level , in the occurrence of chromosomal aberrations in the bone marrow cells in a number of generations .
in addition to chromosomal structural abnormalities , there are genomic changes ( aneuploidy , polyploidy ) .
there is a tendency towards an increased rate of petroleum-induced chromosomal aberrations in a number of generations ( p , f1 , and f2 ) in the rat bone marrow cells .
the maximum mutagenic effect of volatile petroleum fractions was found when used at concentrations of 10 and 100 mg/l upon long-term chronic exposure during three generations ( p1 , f1 , and f2 ) .
the findings are indicative of the mutagenic activity of volatile petroleum fractions , which is likely to pose a potential risk from environmental pollution to biota and population health in the area of intensive oil extraction and refining .
background patients with invasive breast ductal carcinoma ( ibdc ) with metastasis have a very poor prognosis .
little is known about the synergistic action of growth and inflammatory factors in ibdc metastases .
methods the expression of activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase1/2 ( phosphorylated or p-erk1/2 ) was analyzed by immunohistochemistry in ibdc tissue samples from 80 cases .
bt474 ibdc cell migration and invasion were quantified using the transwell assay .
matrix metalloproteinase ( mmp)-9 expression and activity were analyzed by rt-pcr , western blotting and zymography .
activator protein ( ap)-1 activity was measured with a luciferase reporter gene assay .
the wilcoxon signed-rank test , chi-square test , the partition of chi-square test , independent t-test , and spearman's method were used for the statistical analysis .
results phosphorylated erk1/2 was detected in 58/80 ( 72.5% ) ibdc tissues , and was associated with higher tnm stage and lymph node metastasis , but not patient age or tumor size .
individually , epidermal growth factor ( egf ) , and interleukin ( il)-1 activated erk1/2 , increased cell migration and invasion , mmp-9 expression and activity , ap-1 activation in vitro and the expression of p-erk1/2 was positively correlated with egf expression levels , as well as il-1 , mmp-9 and c-fos in ibdc tissue samples .
co-stimulation with egf and il-1 synergistically increased erk1/2 and ap-1 activation , cell migration and invasion , and mmp-9 expression and activity .
inhibition of erk1/2 using u0126 or sirna abolished egf and/or il-1-induced cell migration and invasion in a dose-dependent manner .
conclusion activated erk1/2 was associated with higher tnm stage and lymph node metastasis in ibdc .
both in vitro and in vivo studies indicated that erk-1/2 activation may increase the metastatic ability of ibdc cells .
growth and inflammatory factors synergistically induced ibdc cell migration and invasion via erk1/2 signaling , ap-1 activation and mmp-9 upregulation .
purpose recently , a new renal cell cancer syndrome has been linked to germline mutation of multiple subunits ( sdhb/c/d ) of the krebs cycle enzyme , succinate dehydrogenase .
we report our experience with the diagnosis , evaluation and treatment of this novel form of hereditary kidney cancer .
materials and methods patients with suspected hereditary kidney cancer were enrolled on a national cancer institute institutional review board approved protocol to study inherited forms of kidney cancer .
individuals from families with germline sdhb , sdhc and sdhd mutations , and kidney cancer underwent comprehensive clinical and genetic evaluation .
results a total of 14 patients from 12 sdhb mutation families were evaluated .
patients presented with renal cell cancer at an early age ( 33 years , range 15 to 62 ) , metastatic kidney cancer developed in 4 and some families had no manifestation other than kidney tumors .
an additional family with 6 individuals found to have clear cell renal cell cancer that presented at a young average age ( 47 years , range 40 to 53 ) was identified with a germline sdhc mutation ( r133x ) metastatic disease developed in 2 of these family members .
a patient with a history of carotid body paragangliomas and an aggressive form of kidney cancer was evaluated from a family with a germline sdhd mutation .
conclusions sdh mutation associated renal cell carcinoma can be an aggressive type of kidney cancer , especially in younger individuals .
although detection and management of early tumors is most often associated with a good outcome , based on our initial experience with these patients and our long-term experience with hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma , we recommend careful surveillance of patients at risk for sdh mutation associated renal cell carcinoma and wide surgical excision of renal tumors .
premature senescence , a key strategy used to suppress carcinogenesis , can be driven by p53/p21 proteins in response to various stresses .
here , we demonstrate that wig1 plays a critical role in this process through regulation of p21 mrna stability .
wig1 controls the association of argonaute2 ( ago2 ) , a central component of the rna-induced silencing complex ( risc ) , with target p21 mrna via binding of the stem-loop structure near the microrna ( mirna ) target site .
depletion of wig1 prohibited mirna-mediated p21 mrna decay and resulted in premature senescence .
wig1 plays an essential role in cell proliferation , as demonstrated in tumour xenografts in mice , and wig1 and p21 mrna levels are inversely correlated in human normal and cancer tissues .
together , our data indicate a novel role of wig1 in risc target accessibility , which is a key step in rna-mediated gene silencing .
in addition , these findings indicate that fine-tuning of p21 levels by wig1 is essential for the prevention of cellular senescence .
alteration of the oxidative stress of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) cells can influence the expressions of genes favored angiogenesis .
quinone reductase 2 which can activate quinones leading to reactive oxygen species production is a melatonin receptor known as mt3 .
prazosin prescribed for benign prostate hyperplasia and hypertension is a potent antagonist for mt3 .
this study was to investigate the influence of therapeutic concentrations of prazosin ( 0.01 and 0.1m ) on cell proliferation and differential expressions of ccl2 , ccl20 , cxcl6 , cxcl10 , il8 and il6 genes related to inflammation and/or oxidative stress in human hcc cell lines .
two hcc cell lines including one without susceptible to amphotericin b-induced oxidative stress ( cell line a ; hcc24/kmuh ) and one with this effect ( cell line b ; hcc38/kmuh ) were investigated by 0.01 and 0.1m prazosin .
the premixed wst-1 cell proliferation reagent was applied for proliferation assay .
differential expressions of genes were examined by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction .
our results showed that both 0.01 and 0.1m prazosin did not influence cell proliferation in both cell lines .
both 0.01 and 0.1m prazosin in cell line a and 0.01m prazosin in cell line b did not cause differential expressions of tested genes .
however , 0.1m prazosin caused remarkable up-regulation of il6 gene and slightly up-regulation of ccl2 gene in cell line b. in conclusion , high therapeutic concentration of prazosin can up-regulate angiogenic il6 and ccl2 genes in human hcc cells susceptible to amphotericin b-induced oxidative stress .
clinical application of prazosin in patients with hcc should consider this possibility .
centrosome overduplication or amplification has been observed in many human cancers and in premalignant tissue , but the mechanisms leading to such centrosome aberrations are not fully understood .
we previously showed that abnormal mitotic cells with supernumerary centrosomes increase with replicative senescence in human fibroblasts , especially in a polyploid subpopulation .
this study examines localization of p53 protein at centrosomes in mitotic cells , which is often observed in association with dna damage response , to investigate a possible association between p53 localization and numerical centrosome aberrations induced by cellular senescence .
cultures at later passages or the 4th day after exposure to h(2)o(2) showed increased frequencies of mitotic cells with supernumerary centrosomes , especially in a polyploid subpopulation .
immunohistochemical analysis frequently showed p53-positive foci in mitotic cells , and some were localized at centrosomes .
the number of p53-positive foci in mitotic cells and its localization to centrosomes increased with replicative and premature senescence .
supernumerary centrosomes showed higher frequencies of p53 localization compared to normally duplicated centrosomes .
centrosome-associated p53 protein was phosphorylated at ser15 .
these data suggest a possible association between localization of p53 protein and numerical centrosome aberrations in replicatively or prematurely senescent cells .
purpose .
the purpose of this paper is to evaluate a new pet tracer ( 64)cu-nodaga-c(rgdyk ) for imaging of tumor angiogenesis using gene expression of angiogenesis markers as reference and to estimate radiation dosimetry for humans .
procedures .
nude mice with human neuroendocrine tumor xenografts ( h727 ) were administered ( 64)cu-nodaga-c(rgdyk ) i.v. for study of biodistribution as well as for dynamic pet .
gene expression of angiogenesis markers integrin (v) , integrin (3) , and vegf-a were analyzed using qpcr and correlated to the tracer uptake in the tumors ( %id/g ) .
from biodistribution data human radiation-absorbed doses were estimated using olinda/exm .
results .
tumor uptake was 1.2%id/g with strong correlations between gene expression and tracer uptake , for integrin (v)r = 0.76 , integrin (3)r = 0.75 and vegf-a r = 0.81 ( all p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
the whole body effective dose for humans was estimated to be 0.038 and 0.029msv/mbq for females and males , respectively , with highest absorbed dose in bladder wall .
conclusion .
( 64)cu-nodaga-c(rgdyk ) is a promising new angiogenesis pet tracer with potential for human use .
cytokine-dependent cell lines have been used to analyze the cytokine-induced cellular signaling and the mechanism of oncogenesis .
in the current study , we analyzed motn-1 and plt-2 cell lines established from different stages of a t-cell large granular lymphocyte leukemia patient ( daibata et al. 2004 ) .
motn-1 is il-2-dependent derived from the chronic phase , whereas il-2-independent plt-2 is from the aggressive and terminal stage .
they shared considerable chromosome abnormalities and the pattern of t-cell receptor rearrangement , presuming that the cytokine independence of plt-2 was due to the additive genetic abnormality .
besides il-2 , il-15 supported motn-1 cell growth , because these receptors share beta- and gamma-subunits .
il-2 activated erk , akt and stat pathway of motn-1 .
stat3 pathway of plt-2 was also activated by il-2 , suggesting intact il-2 induces signal transduction of plt-2 .
however , erk1/2 but not akt , was continuously activated in plt-2 , consistent with the increased ras-activity of plt-2 .
sequence analysis revealed kras g12a mutation but not nras and hras mutation of plt-2 but not motn-1 .
another signaling molecule affecting ras-signaling pathway , shp2 , which has been frequently mutated in juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia ( jmml ) , did not show mutation .
moreover , mek inhibitor , pd98059 , as well as farnesylation inhibitor inhibited plt-2 cell growth .
using nih3t3 and motn-1 , erk activation , increased cell proliferation and survival by kras g12a were shown , suggesting the important role of kras g12a in il-2-independent growth of plt-2 .
taken together , kras g12a is important for il-2-independent growth of plt-2 cells and suggests the possibility of involvement of kras mutation with disease progression .
angiotensin ii type 1 receptor ( at1r ) promotes tumor invasion , migration , metastasis and angiogenesis .
we explored the potential antitumor effects of at1r antagonists in breast cancer .
we found that angiotensin ii promoted cell proliferation and upregulated the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor a ( vegf-a ) in mcf-7 cells .
losartan downregulated the expression of vegf-a in mcf-7 cells treated with angiotensin ii .
candesartan downregulated the expression of vegf-a in mice bearing mcf-7 xenografts and inhibited tumor growth and angiogenesis .
at1r and vegf-a expression correlated with increased microvascular density in 102 breast cancer patients .
our data suggest that at1r antagonists might be useful to suppress breast cancer by inhibiting the angiotensin ii .
the cd4+cd25+ regulatory t cell ( treg ) is a special kind of t cell subset .
studies have showed that treg cells are involved in a number of physiological processes and pathologic conditions such as autoimmune diseases , transplantation tolerance and cancer .
tregs with unique capacity for immune inhibition can impair anti-tumour immunity and help tumor cells to escape from immune surveillance .
the aim of our study was to investigate whether tregs are involved in hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) .
a babl/c mouse with hcc in situ model was established to evaluate the treg existence in carcinoma tissues and the changes of tregs in spleen using flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry methods .
granzyme b expression in carcinoma tissues was analyzed by immunohistochemistry to investigate the tumor local immune status .
the proportion of cd4+cd25+/cd4+ spleen lymphocytes of tumor bearing mice ( 18.8%  1.26% ) was found to be significantly higher than that in normal mice ( 9.99%  1.90% ) ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
immunohistochemistry of spleen tissue also confirmed that there was an increase in treg in tumor-bearing mice , while in carcinomas it showed treg cells to be present in tumor infiltrating lymphocyte areas while granzyme b was rarely observed .
anti-tumour immunity was suppressed , and this might be associated with the increase of tregs .
our observations suggest that the cd4+cd25+treg/ cd4+ proportion in spleen lymphocytes can be a sensitive index to evaluate the change of tregs in hepatocellular carcinoma mice and the treg may be a promising therapeutic target for cancer .
objective to evaluate the risk factors for sentinel lymph node metastasis and validate the value of the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center nomogram for the prediction of sentinel lymph node metastasis in breast cancer patients .
methods a sentinel lymph node biopsy database containing 1227 consecutive breast cancer patients ( 416 patients with at least one positive sentinel lymph node ) was retrospectively analyzed .
the predictive value of the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center nomogram was calculated by the trend line and the area under the receiver-operator characteristic curve .
meanwhile , predictors for sentinel lymph node metastasis were also evaluated .
results tumor size , histological grade , lymphovascular invasion , mulifocality , estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor status were significant independent predictors for sentinel lymph node metastasis ( all p&lt;0.01 ) .
the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center nomogram presented an area under the receiver-operator characteristic curve value of 0.730 .
patients with predictive value&lt;16% had a frequency of sentinel lymph node metastasis of 0.9% .
those with values larger than 70% had a frequency of 96.2% .
conclusions the risk factors for sentinel lymph node metastasis in our study were consistent with those in the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center nomogram .
the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center nomogram is a useful tool that could accurately predict the probability of sentinel lymph node metastasis in our breast cancer patients .
axillary surgical staging might be avoided in patients with a predictive value of &lt;16% and axillary lymph node dissection might be done directly in those with a predictive value &gt;70% , while other patients should still accept sentinel lymph node biopsy .
the topoisomerase ii ( topo ii ) dna incision-and-ligation cycle can be poisoned ( for example following treatment with cancer chemotherapeutics ) to generate cytotoxic dna double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) with topo ii covalently conjugated to dna .
tyrosyl-dna phosphodiesterase 2 ( tdp2 ) protects genomic integrity by reversing 5'-phosphotyrosyl-linked topo ii-dna adducts .
here , x-ray structures of mouse tdp2-dna complexes reveal that tdp2 -2-helix- dna damage-binding ' grasp ' , helical ' cap ' and dna lesion-binding elements fuse to form an elongated protein-dna conjugate substrate-interaction groove .
the tdp2 dna-binding surface is highly tailored for engagement of 5'-adducted single-stranded dna ends and restricts nonspecific endonucleolytic or exonucleolytic processing .
structural , mutational and functional analyses support a single-metal ion catalytic mechanism for the exonuclease-endonuclease-phosphatase ( eep ) nuclease superfamily and establish a molecular framework for targeted small-molecule blockade of tdp2-mediated resistance to anticancer topoisomerase drugs .
the relevance of many brca2 variants of uncertain significance ( vus ) to breast cancer has not been determined due to limited genetic information from families carrying these alterations .
here , we classified six new variants as pathogenic or nonpathogenic by analysis of genetic information from families carrying 64 individual brca2 dna binding domain ( dbd ) missense mutations using a multifactorial likelihood model of cancer causality .
next , we evaluated the use of a homology-directed dna break repair ( hdr ) functional assay as a method for inferring the clinical relevance of vus in the dbd of brca2 using 18 established nonpathogenic missense variants and all 13 established pathogenic missense mutations from the brca2 dbd .
compared with the known status of these variants based on the multifactorial likelihood model , the sensitivity of the hdr assay for pathogenic mutations was estimated at 100% [ 95% confidence interval ( ci ) : 75.3%-100% ] and specificity was estimated at 100% ( 95% ci : 81.5%-100% ) .
a statistical classifier for predicting the probability of pathogenicity of brca2 dbd variants was developed using these functional results .
when applied to 33 additional vus , the classifier identified eight with 99% or more probability of nonpathogenicity and 18 with 99% or more probability of pathogenicity .
thus , in the absence of genetic evidence , a cell-based hdr assay can provide a probability of pathogenicity for all vus in the brca2 dbd , suggesting that the assay can be used in combination with other information to determine the cancer relevance of brca2 vus .
blockage of the metastasis process remains a significant clinical challenge , requiring innovative therapeutic approaches .
for this purpose , molecules that inhibit matrix metalloproteinases activity or induce the expression of their natural inhibitor , the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases ( timps ) , are potentially interesting .
in a previous study , we have shown that synthetic ligands binding to cell surface nucleolin/nucleophosmin and known as hb 19 for the lead compound and nucant 6l ( n6l ) for the most potent analog , inhibit both tumor growth and angiogenesis .
furthermore , they prevent metastasis in a ret transgenic mice model which develops melanoma .
here , we investigated the effect of n6l on the invasion capacity of mda-mb-435 melanoma cells .
our results show that the multivalent pseudopeptide n6l inhibited matrigel invasion of mda-mb-435 cells in a modified boyden chamber model .
this was associated with an increase in timp-3 in the cell culture medium without a change in timp-3 mrna expression suggesting its release from cell surface and/or extracellular matrix .
this may be explained by our demonstrated n6l interaction with sulfated glycosaminoglycans and consequently the controlled bioavailability of glycosaminoglycan-bound timp-3 .
the implication of timp-3 in n6l-induced inhibition of cell invasion was evidenced by sirna silencing experiments showing that the loss of timp-3 expression abrogated the effect of n6l .
the inhibition of tumor cell invasion by n6l demonstrated in this study , in addition to its previously established inhibitory effect on tumor growth and angiogenesis , suggests that n6l represents a promising anticancer drug candidate warranting further investigation .
melittin ( 1 ) is a major polypeptide in honey bee venom that has been used traditionally against chronic inflammation and cancer .
however , its molecular mechanism has not been determined .
in this study , the antitumor effect of 1 was compared with that of ns398 , a cyclooxygenase-2 ( cox-2 ) inhibitor , in vivo and in vitro .
subcutaneous injection of 1 at 0.5 and 5 mg/kg suppressed significantly vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf)-a-transfected highly metastatic lewis lung cancer ( vegf-a-hm llc ) tumor growth by 25% and 57% , respectively .
also , 1 inhibited significantly the number of vessels around vegf-a-hm llc cells .
the results were superior to those obtained in the mice treated with ns398 .
compound 1 dose-dependently inhibited proliferation and tube formation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( vegf-a-huvecs ) , without affecting cell viability in native huvecs .
in addition , 1 decreased the expression of vegf receptor-2 ( vegfr-2 ) , cox-2 , and prostaglandin e(2) ( pge(2) ) in vegf-a-transfected huvecs .
these effects were accompanied by a reduction of the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and c-jun n-terminal kinase , whereas it increased the phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk ) .
sb203580 abolished the downregulation of cox-2 and vegfr-2 and the inhibition of cell proliferation by 1 .
the antitumor activity of 1 may be associated with antiangiogenic actions via inhibiting vegfr-2 and inflammatory mediators involved in the mapk signaling pathway .
although regulatory t cells ( t(regs) ) are known to suppress self-reactive autoimmune responses , their role during t cell responses to nonself antigens is not well understood .
we show that t(regs) play a critical role during the priming of immune responses in mice .
t(reg) depletion induced the activation and expansion of a population of low-avidity cd8(+) t cells because of overproduction of ccl-3/4/5 chemokines , which stabilized the interactions between antigen-presenting dendritic cells and low-avidity t cells .
in the absence of t(regs) , the avidity of the primary immune response was impaired , which resulted in reduced memory to listeria monocytogenes .
these results suggest that t(regs) are important regulators of the homeostasis of cd8(+) t cell priming and play a critical role in the induction of high-avidity primary responses and effective memory .
trabecular meshwork ( tm ) cells have widely been used as an invitro model for glaucoma research .
however , primary tm cells suffer the disadvantages of limited cell numbers and slow rates of proliferation .
we discovered a spontaneously transformed bovine tm ( btm ) cell line , btm-28t .
this cell line proliferated rapidly in low-glucose culture medium but also demonstrated contact inhibition in high-glucose culture medium .
btm-28t cells expressed key tm cell markers including -smooth muscle actin ( -sma ) , laminin and collagen iv ( col iv ) .
also , 100nm dexamethasone ( dex ) enhanced the formation of cross-linked actin networks ( clans ) in confluent btm-28t cell cultures .
transforming growth factor beta 2 ( tgf2 ) induced the expression of fibronectin ( fn ) , plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 ( pai-1 ) , and connective tissue growth factor ( ctgf ) in our cell cultures .
this cell line will be helpful to better understand the aqueous humor outflow pathway as related to the pathophysiology of glaucoma .
background investigations concerned the mechanism of ht-29 cells radiosensitization by cis-9,trans-11-conjugated linoleic acid ( c9,t11-cla ) , a natural component of human diet with proven antitumor activity .
methods the cells were incubated for 24h with 70m c9,t11-cla and then x-irradiated .
the following methods were used : gas chromatography ( incorporation of the cla isomer ) , flow cytometry ( cell cycle ) , cloning ( survival ) , western blotting ( protein distribution in membrane fractions ) , and pulse-field gel electrophoresis ( rejoining of dna double-strand breaks ) .
in parallel , dna-pk activity , -h2ax foci numbers and chromatid fragmentation were estimated .
gene expression was analysed by rt-pcr and chromosomal aberrations by the mfish method .
nuclear accumulation of the egf receptor ( egfr ) was monitored by elisa .
results and conclusions c9,t11-cla sensitized ht-29 cells to x-radiation .
this effect was not due to changes in cell cycle progression or dna-repair-related gene expression .
post-irradiation dsb rejoining was delayed , corresponding with the insufficient dna-pk activation , although chromosomal aberration frequencies did not increase .
distributions of cholesterol and caveolin-1 in cellular membrane fractions changed .
the nuclear egfr translocation , necessary to increase the dna-pk activity in response to oxidative stress , was blocked .
we suppose that c9,t11-cla modified the membrane structure , thus disturbing the intracellular egfr transport and the egfr-dependent pro-survival signalling , both functionally associated with lipid raft properties .
general significance the results point to the importance of the cell membrane interactions with the nucleus after injury inflicted by x -rays .
compounds like c9,t11-cla , that specifically alter membrane properties , could be used to develop new anticancer strategies .
lung cancer is primarily caused by exposure to tobacco smoke .
tobacco smoke contains numerous carcinogens , including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( pah ) .
the most common pah studied is benzo[a]pyrene ( b[a]p ) .
b[a]p is metabolically activated through multiple routes , one of which is catalyzed by aldo-keto reductase ( akr ) to b[a]p-7,8-dione ( bpq ) .
bpq undergoes a futile redox cycle in the presence of nadph to generate reactive oxygen species ( ros ) .
ros , in turn , damages dna .
studies with a yeast p53 mutagenesis system found that the generation of ros by pah o-quinones may contribute to lung carcinogenesis because of similarities between the patterns ( types of mutations ) and spectra ( location of mutations ) and those seen in lung cancer .
the patterns were dominated by g to t transversions , and the spectra in the experimental system have mutations at lung cancer hotspots .
to address repair mechanisms that are responsible for bpq induced damage we observed the effect of mutating two dna repair genes ogg1 and ape1 ( apn1 in yeast ) and tested them in a yeast reporter system for p53 mutagenesis .
there was an increase in both the mutant frequency and the number of g:c/t:a transversions in p53 treated with bpq in ogg1 yeast but not in apn1 yeast .
knocking out apn2 increased mutagenesis in the apn1 cells .
in addition , we did not find a strand bias on p53 treated with bpq in ogg1 yeast .
these studies suggest that ogg1 is involved in repairing the oxidative damage caused by bpq , apn1 and apn2 have redundant functions and that the stand bias seen in lung cancer may not be due to impaired repair of oxidative lesions .
molecular mechanisms involved in progression of clear-cell renal-cell carcinomas ( ccrccs ) are poorly understood .
a common genetic mutation found in ccrcc is the loss of the von hippel-lindau ( vhl ) gene , which contributes to cancer progression and metastasis .
we investigated vip effects on metastatic and angiogenic factors in human vhl-null a498 ccrcc and hk2 renal cells .
vip increased adhesion but decreased expression of metalloproteinases , mmp2 and mmp9 , as well as cell migration and vegf expression and secretion in a498 but not in hk2 cells .
vip enhanced ros levels and decreased nuclear levels of -catenin and nfb p50-subunit in a498 cells , suggesting neuropeptide involvement in the observed decrease of metastatic ability in clear-cell carcinoma .
vip effects in a498 cells were blocked by the vpac(1/2)-receptor antagonist jv-1-53 .
in conclusion , present data point to a role of vip in preventing invasion and metastasis in ccrccs and support its potential therapeutic usefulness in this disease .
mitochondrial uncoupling protein 2 ( ucp2 ) can moderate oxidative stress by favoring the influx of protons into the mitochondrial matrix , thus reducing electron leakage from respiratory chain and mitochondrial superoxide production .
here , we demonstrate that ucp2 inhibition by genipin or ucp2 sirna strongly increases reactive oxygen species ( ros ) production inhibiting pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell growth .
we also show that ucp2 inhibition triggers ros-dependent nuclear translocation of the glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase ( gapdh ) , formation of autophagosomes , and the expression of the autophagy marker lc3-ii .
consistently , ucp2 over-expression significantly reduces basal autophagy confirming the anti-autophagic role of ucp2 .
furthermore , we demonstrate that autophagy induced by ucp2 inhibition determines a ros-dependent cell death , as indicated by the apoptosis decrease in the presence of the autophagy inhibitors chloroquine ( cq ) or 3-methyladenine ( 3-ma ) , or the radical scavenger nac .
intriguingly , the autophagy induced by genipin is able to potentiate the autophagic cell death triggered by gemcitabine , the standard chemotherapeutic drug for pancreatic adenocarcinoma , supporting the development of an anti-cancer therapy based on ucp2 inhibition associated to standard chemotherapy .
our results demonstrate for the first time that ucp2 plays a role in autophagy regulation bringing new insights into mitochondrial uncoupling protein field .
acrolein ( acr ) is a ubiquitous environmental pollutant found in cigarette smoke and automobile exhaust .
it can also be produced endogenously by oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids .
the acr-derived 1,n(2)-propanodeoxyguanosine ( acr-dg ) adducts in dna are mutagenic lesions that are potentially involved in human cancers .
in this study , monoclonal antibodies were raised against acr-dg adducts and characterized using elisa .
they showed strong reactivity and specificity toward acr-dg , weaker reactivity toward crotonaldehyde- and trans-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-derived 1,n(2)-propanodeoxyguanosines , and weak or no reactivity toward 1,n(6)-ethenodeoxyadenosine and 8-oxo-deoxyguanosine .
using these antibodies , we developed assays to detect acr-dg in vivo : first , a simple and quick facs-based assay for detecting these adducts directly in cells ; second , a highly sensitive direct elisa assay for measuring acr-dg in cells and tissues using only 1 g of dna without dna digestion and sample enrichment ; and third , a competitive elisa for better quantitative measurement of acr-dg levels in dna samples .
the assays were validated using acr-treated ht29 cell dna samples or calf thymus dna , and the results were confirmed by lc-ms/ms-mrm .
an immunohistochemical assay was also developed to detect and visualize acr-dg in ht29 cells as well as in human oral cells .
these antibody-based methods provide useful tools for the studies of acr-dg as a cancer biomarker and of the molecular mechanisms by which cells respond to acr-dg as a ubiquitous dna lesion .
the mammalian cop9 signalosome ( csn ) complex is involved in cell transformation , but its molecular mechanism remains undetermined .
here we show that disruption of the fifth component ( csn5 ) prevented the formation of tumors by p53-null cells transformed with an active form of ras in subcutaneously injected mice .
depletion of csn5 suppressed cell proliferation , and induced premature senescence characterized by upregulation of senescence-associated--galactosidase activity and increased expression of cdk inhibitors .
csn5-depleted cells exhibited enhanced activation of the pi3 kinase-akt pathway , and chemical inhibition of this pathway reduced the level of senescence .
thus , csn5 is suggested to be a novel target in cancer therapy and for drugs against tumor cells harboring mutated p53 .
glioblastoma multiforme ( gbm ) and oxidative stress are closely linked .
oxidative stress affects many signaling pathways and may cause the induction of autophagy .
the nf-e2-related factor 2 ( nrf2)/kelch-like ech-associated protein 1 ( keap1 ) signaling pathway is the main pathway responsible for cell defense against oxidative stress and nrf2 is a critical transcription factor related with cancer multidrug resistance .
however , the relation between nrf2 and regulation of autophagy is not well understood .
in this study , we used temozolomide ( tmz ) , which inhibited the viability of gbm cells mainly by inducing autophagic cell death and explored the role of nrf2 downregulation on autophagy induced by tmz in gbm cells .
in u251-si-nrf2 48h after transfection the protein levels of nrf2 were significantly downregulated , while the protein levels of lc3b-ii increased by western blot analysis .
knockdown of nrf2 also led to a significant increase of autophagic vacuoles and acidic vesicular organelles ( avos ) , revealed by trans-mission electron microscopy ( tem ) and acridine orange ( ao ) staining using flow cytometry .
collectively , these findings demonstrate that knockdown of nrf2 can enhance the basal level of autophagy in the u251 glioma cell line .
furthermore , after the treatment with tmz ( 100m ) for 3 days , the u251-si-nrf2 transfected cells showed less viability rate by cell counting kit-8 ( cck-8 ) assay and the levels of autophagy increased obviously through analysis of western blot and ao staining using flow cytometry .
taken together , our results suggest that knockdown of nrf2 may enhance autophagy induced by tmz in the u251 glioma cell line , which should be further evaluated for novel anticancer activity .
lewisy ( ley ) antigen is an oligosaccharide that is highly expressed at the cell surface in various human cancers .
increased ley expression activates epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ( her2 ) and promotes cell proliferation in egfr-overexpressing cells .
however , the effect of downregulation of ley expression on cell proliferation in her2-overexpressing cells remains unknown .
fut1 encodes 1,2-fucosyltransferase , a key enzyme for ley synthesis .
we knocked down fut1 by short interfering rna ( sirna ) in four her2-overexpressing human cancer cell lines , including nci-n87 , mkn7 , skbr3 and bt474 .
we investigated whether downregulation of ley and alteration in the glycosylation status of these cells affect cell proliferation and her2 activation .
knocking down fut1 expression markedly inhibited proliferation of nci-n87 , which highly expressed egfr and was sensitive to egfr deprivation .
furthermore , fut1 sirna downregulated the total amount of her2 protein , phosphorylation of her2 and egfr , and phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( erk ) in this cell line .
moreover , the marked downregulation of phosphorylation of her2 and erk was observed following short-time egf-stimulation .
these effects were not observed in the other three cell lines .
our results suggest that knockdown of fut1 downregulates her2 signaling via egfr downregulation .
fut1 may serve as a new molecular target for her2-overexpressing human cancers with activated egfr signaling .
blind mole rats spalax ( bmr ) are small subterranean rodents common in the middle east .
bmr is distinguished by its adaptations to life underground , remarkable longevity ( with a maximum documented lifespan of 21 y ) , and resistance to cancer .
spontaneous tumors have never been observed in spalacids .
to understand the mechanisms responsible for this resistance , we examined the growth of bmr fibroblasts in vitro of the species spalax judaei and spalax golani .
bmr cells proliferated actively for 7-20 population doublings , after which the cells began secreting ifn- , and the cultures underwent massive necrotic cell death within 3 d .
the necrotic cell death phenomenon was independent of culture conditions or telomere shortening .
interestingly , this cell behavior was distinct from that observed in another long-lived and cancer-resistant african mole rat , heterocephalus glaber , the naked mole rat in which cells display hypersensitivity to contact inhibition .
sequestration of p53 and rb proteins using sv40 large t antigen completely rescued necrotic cell death .
our results suggest that cancer resistance of bmr is conferred by massive necrotic response to overproliferation mediated by p53 and rb pathways , and triggered by the release of ifn- .
thus , we have identified a unique mechanism that contributes to cancer resistance of this subterranean mammal extremely adapted to life underground .
chromosomal translocations typically impair cell differentiation and often require secondary mutations for malignant transformation .
however , the role of a primary translocation in the development of collaborating mutations is debatable .
to delineate the role of leukemic translocation nup98-hoxd13 ( nhd13 ) in secondary mutagenesis , dna break and repair mechanisms in stimulated mouse b lymphocytes expressing nhd13 were analyzed .
our results showed significantly reduced expression of non-homologous end joining ( nhej)-mediated dna repair genes , dna pkcs , dna ligase4 , and xrcc4 leading to cell cycle arrest at g2/m phase .
our results showed that expression of nhd13 fusion gene resulted in impaired nhej-mediated dna break repair .
a prominent feature of inflammatory diseases is endothelial dysfunction .
factors associated with endothelial dysfunction include proinflammatory cytokines , adhesion molecules , and matrix degrading enzymes .
at the transcriptional level , they are regulated by the histone deacetylase sirtuin ( sirt ) 1 via its actions on the proinflammatory transcription factor nuclear factor-b ( nf-b ) .
the role of sirt6 , also a histone deacetylase , in regulating inflammation in endothelial cells is not known .
the aim of this study was to determine the effect of sirt6 knockdown on inflammatory markers in human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( huvecs ) in the presence of lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) .
lps decreased expression of sirt6 in huvecs .
knockdown of sirt6 increased the expression of proinflammatory cytokines ( il-1 , il-6 , il-8 ) , cox-prostaglandin system , ecm remodelling enzymes ( mmp-2 , mmp-9 and pai-1 ) , the adhesion molecule icam-1 , and proangiogenic growth factors vegf and fgf-2 ; cell migration ; cell adhesion to leukocytes .
loss of sirt6 increased the expression of nf-b , whereas overexpression of sirt6 was associated with decreased nf-b transcriptional activity .
taken together , these results demonstrate that the loss of sirt6 in endothelial cells is associated with upregulation of genes involved in inflammation , vascular remodelling , and angiogenesis .
sirt6 may be a potential pharmacological target for inflammatory vascular diseases .
new molecularly targeted therapies are needed for childhood ependymoma .
angiogenesis and the pdgfr pathway could be potential therapeutic targets .
this study aimed to screen ependymomas for the expression and clinicopathological correlates of angiogenic factors and potential therapeutic targets including vegfr , endoglin ( cd105 ) , cd34 , cd31 , c-kit , pdgfr- and pdgfr- .
immunohistochemistry for angiogenesis factors and pdgfr- and  was performed in 24 archival tumor samples from children and adults treated for ependymoma at our institution .
cd31 density , cd105 density and pericyte coverage index ( pci ) were calculated .
these findings were correlated with clinical outcome .
vegfr2 was overexpressed in tumor cells in only one out of 24 cases , but was found overexpressed in the vessels in 6 cases .
pdgfr- and  were found to be over-expressed in the ependymoma tumor cells in seven out of 24 cases ( 29.2 % ) .
cd31 density , cd105 density and pci did not correlate with expression of pdgfrs .
overexpression of pdgfr- and  in tumor cells and overexpression of pdgfr- in tumor endothelium had prognostic significance and this was maintained in multivariate analysis for overexpression of pdgfr- in tumor cells ( 2 year progression free survival was 16.7  15.2 for cases with overexpression of pdgfr- in the tumor vs. 74.5  15.2 for those with low/no expression , hazard ratio = 5.78 , p = 0.04 ) .
a number of angiogenic factors are expressed in ependymoma tumor cells and tumor endothelium .
preliminary evidence suggests that the expression of pdgfrs could have a prognostic significance in ependymoma .
this data suggests that pdgfrs should be further evaluated as targets using novel pdgfr inhibitors .
background engineered zinc-finger nucleases ( zfn ) represented an innovative method for the genome manipulation in vertebrates .
zfn introduced targeted dna double strand breaks ( dsb ) and initiated non-homologous end joining ( nhej ) after pronuclear or cytoplasmatic microinjection into zygotes .
resulting frame shift mutations led to functional gene ablations in zebra fish , mice , pigs and also in laboratory rats .
therefore , we targeted the rat rag1 gene essential for the v(d)j recombination within the immunoglobulin production process and for the differentiation of mature b and t lymphocytes to generate an immunodeficient rat model in the lew/ztm strain .
results after microinjection of rag1 specific zfn mrnas in 623 zygotes of inbred lew/ztm rats 59 offspring were born from which one carried a 4 bp deletion .
this frame shift mutation led to a premature stop codon and a subsequently truncated rag1 protein confirmed by the loss of the full-length protein in western blot analysis .
truncation of the rag1 protein was characterized by the complete depletion of mature b cells .
the remaining t cell population contained mature cd4+/cd3+/tcr+ as well as cd8+/cd3+/tcr+ positive lymphocytes accompanied by a compensatory increase of natural killer cells in the peripheral blood .
reduction of t cell development in rag1 mutant rats was associated with a hypoplastic thymus that lacked follicular structures .
histological evaluation also revealed the near-complete absence of lymphocytes in spleen and lymph nodes in the immunodeficient rag1 mutant rat .
conclusion the rag1 mutant rat will serve as an important model for transplantation studies .
furthermore , it may be used as a model for reconstitution experiments related to the immune system , particularly with respect to different populations of human lymphocytes , natural killer cells and autoimmune phenomena .
we previously demonstrated that downregulation of protein kinase ckii induces cellular senescence in human colon cancer hct116 cells .
to investigate the role of micrornas ( mirnas ) in ckii downregulation during senescence , we employed computational algorithms .
four mirnas ( mir-186 , mir-216b , mir-337-3p , and mir-760 ) were predicted to be mirnas against ckii mrna .
mimics of all four mirnas jointly downregulated ckii expression in hct116 cells .
reporter analysis and rt-pcr have suggested that these four mirnas may stimulate degradation of ckii mrna by targeting its 3 ' untranslated regions ( utrs ) .
the four mirna mimics increased senescent-associated -galactosidase ( sa--gal ) staining , p53 and p21(cip1/waf1) expression , and reactive oxygen species ( ros ) production .
in contrast , concomitant knockdown of the four mirnas by antisense inhibitors increased the ckii protein level and suppressed ckii inhibition-mediated senescence .
finally , ckii overexpression antagonized senescence induced by the four mirna mimics .
therefore , the present results show that mir-186 , mir-216b , mir-337-3p , and mir-760 cooperatively promote cellular senescence through the p53-p21(cip1/waf1) pathway by ckii downregulation-mediated ros production in hct116 cells .
aberrant expression of mucins is likely associated with cancer biology as alterations in the expression and/or glycosylation patterns of various mucins have been noted .
expression of the mucin family in gastric cancers has been reported in numerous studies , but the results are conflicting .
therefore , we investigated the potential use of mucin ( muc)1 and 4 as prognostic markers in gastric cancer according to histological subtype .
three-hundred and sixty-five gastric adenocarcinoma patients who underwent surgical resection were selected for this study .
among the 365 gastric cancer samples tested here , 34% consisted of early gastric cancer and 66% were advanced .
in terms of location , 68.7% of the cohort had intestinal-type cancer and 30.7% had diffuse-type .
we constructed tissue microarrays with formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded blocks of gastric cancer and these micro-arrays were evaluated for phenotypic expression of muc1/4 using monoclonal antibodies .
two-hundred and ninety-two patients ( 92.7% ) were positive for muc1 and 216 ( 60.5% ) were positive for muc4 .
muc1 expression was not correlated with any other clinicopathological variables such as age , gender , depth of invasion , lymph node metastasis , lauren classification or recurrence .
however , loss of muc4 expression was significantly correlated with recurrence ( p=0.033 ) .
muc4 expression was also significantly correlated with better disease-free survival ( p=0.049 ) and particularly in the intestinal-type ( p=0.018 ) .
our present findings demonstrated that loss of muc4 expression can be used as a prognostic marker in gastric cancer .
loss of muc4 expression is a prognostic indicator of increased recurrence and poor disease-free survival in patients with gastric cancer .
to investigate whether altered energy metabolism induces the warburg effect and results in tumor malignancy , the respiratory enzyme citrate synthase ( cs ) was examined , silenced , and the effects analyzed .
in human cervical carcinoma cells , rnai-mediated cs knockdown induced morphological changes characteristic of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) .
this switch accelerated cancer cell metastasis and proliferation in in vitro assays and in vivo tumor xenograft models .
notably , cs knockdown cells exhibited severe defects in respiratory activity and marked decreases in atp production , but great increases in glycolytic metabolism .
this malignant progression was due to activation of emt-related regulators ; altered energy metabolism resulted from deregulation of the p53/tigar and sco2 pathways .
this phenotypic change was completely reversed by p53 reactivation via treatment with proteasome inhibitor mg132 or co-knockdown of e3 ligase hdm2 and partially suppressed by atp treatment .
this study directly links the warburg effect to tumor malignancy via induction of the emt phenotype .
when the prostate cancer cells become unresponsive to androgen therapy , resistance to chemotherapy becomes imminent , resulting in high mortality .
to combat this situation , lycopodine , a pharmacologically important bioactive component derived from lycopodium clavatum spores , was tested against hormone sensitive ( lncap ) and refractory ( pc3 ) prostate cancer cells in vitro .
this study aims to check if lycopodine has demonstrable anti-cancer effects and if it has , to find out the possible mechanism of its action .
the mtt assay was performed to evaluate the cytotoxic effect .
depolarization of mitochondrial membrane potential , cell cycle , egf receptor activity and apoptosis were recorded by facs ; profiles of different anti- and pro-apoptotic genes and their products were studied by semi-quantitative rt-pcr , indirect-elisa , western blotting .
drug-dna interaction was determined by cd spectroscopy .
administration of lycopodine down-regulated the expression of 5-lipoxygenase and the 5-oxo-ete receptor ( oxe receptor1 ) and egf receptor , and caused up-regulation of cytochrome c with depolarization of mitochondrial inner membrane potential , without palpable change in p53 activity , resulting in apoptosis , cell arrest at g0/g1 stage and ultimately reduced proliferation of cancer cells ; concomitantly , there was externalization of phosphotidyl serine residues .
cd spectroscopic analysis revealed intercalating property of lycopodine with dna molecule , implicating its ability to block cellular dna synthesis .
the overall results suggest that lycopodine is a promising candidate suitable for therapeutic use as an anti-cancer drug .
background and aims : impairment of the immune system may contribute to the risk for having cancer as toll-like receptors are important for innate immunity .
we examined the association between candidate disease-susceptibility polymorphisms in the single nucleotide polymorphism ( snps ) like tlr2 ( -196 to-174del ) , tlr3 ( c1377t ) , tlr4 ( thr399ile ) and tlr9 ( g2848a ) genes in patients with bladder cancer in a north indian population .
methods : snps were comprised of tlr2 ( -196 to -174 del ) , tlr3(c1377t) , tlr4 ( thr399ile ) and tlr9 ( g2848a ) genes .
allelic and genotypic frequencies of these tlrs snp from histopathologically confirmed patients of bladder cancer ( n=200 ) and unrelated healthy controls of similar ethnicity ( n=200 ) were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism ( pcr-rflp ) analysis .
results : in tlr2 i/d gene polymorphism , the combination of id+dd showed a significant 3-fold increased risk ( p=0.001 ) .
tlr2 with heterozygous genotype id showed a 3-fold risk and combination of heterozygous and variant genotype ( id+dd ) also showed a 5-fold risk with tumor stage/grade of patients with bladder cancer .
the other genotypes of tlr3 , 4 and 9 did not exhibit any significant association with bladder cancer risk .
conclusions : our results suggested the involvement of tlr2 ( -196 to-174 del ) in bladder cancer susceptibility ; however , tlr3 , 4 and 9 genes were not associated with risk of bladder cancer , implicating that polymorphisms in these tested tlrs genes are not likely to be associated with increased risk for developing bladder cancer .
functional studies in ethnically diverse populations may provide a more comprehensive involvement of innate immunity in identifying the disease-associated variants for the etiology of bladder cancer .
dna mismatch repair ( mmr ) of simple base mismatches and small insertion-deletion loops in eukaryotes is initiated by the binding of the muts homolog 2 ( msh2)-msh6 heterodimer to mismatched dna .
cadmium ( cd ) is a genotoxic heavy metal that has been recognized as a human carcinogen .
oxidant stress and inhibition of dna repair have been proposed as major factors underlying cd genotoxicity .
our previous studies indicated the ability of cd to disturb the gene expression of msh6 in zebrafish ( danio rerio ) embryos .
this study was undertaken to explore if cd-induced oxidative stress down-regulated msh gene activities .
following the exposure of zebrafish embryos at 1 h post fertilization ( hpf ) to sublethal concentrations of cd at 3-5 m for 4 or 9 h , a parallel down-regulation of msh2 , msh6 and cu/zn superoxide dismutase ( cu/zn-sod ) gene expression was detected by real-time rt-pcr and the expression levels were 40-50% of control after a 9-h exposure .
cd exposure also induced oxidative stress , yet no inhibition of catalase gene activity was observed .
whole mount in situ hybridization revealed a wide distribution of msh6 mrna in the head regions of 10 hpf embryos and pretreatment of embryos with antioxidants butylhydroxytoluene ( bht ) , d-mannitol or n-acetylcysteine ( nac ) at 1-10 m restored cd-suppressed msh6 expression .
qpcr confirmed the protective effects of antioxidants on cd-suppressed msh2/msh6 mrna production .
down-regulated msh gene activities reaching about 50% of control were also induced in embryos exposed to paraquat , a reactive oxygen species ( ros)-generating herbicide , or hydrogen peroxide at 200 m .
hence , cd at sublethal levels down-regulates msh2/msh6 expression primarily via ros as signaling molecules .
the transcriptional activation of human msh6 is known to be fully dependent on the specificity factor 1 ( sp1 ) .
cd failed to inhibit the dna binding activity of zebrafish sp1 unless at lethal concentrations based on band shift assay , therefore excluding the involvement of sp1 inactivation in cd-induced msh gene inhibition in zebrafish embryos .
progression to malignancy requires that cells overcome senescence and switch to an immortal phenotype .
thus , exploring the genetic and epigenetic changes that occur during senescence/immortalization may help elucidate crucial events that lead to cell transformation .
in the present study , we have globally profiled dna methylation in relation to gene expression in primary , senescent and immortalized mouse embryonic fibroblasts .
using a high-resolution genome-wide mapping technique , followed by extensive locus-specific validation assays , we have identified 24 cpg islands that display significantly higher levels of cpg methylation in immortalized cell lines as compared to primary murine fibroblasts .
several of these hypermethylated cpg islands are associated with genes involved in the mek-erk pathway , one of the most frequently disrupted pathways in cancer .
approximately half of the hypermethylated targets are developmental regulators , and bind to the repressive polycomb group ( pcg ) proteins , often in the context of bivalent chromatin in mouse embryonic stem cells .
because pcg-associated aberrant dna methylation is a hallmark of several human malignancies , our methylation data suggest that epigenetic reprogramming of pluripotency genes may initiate cell immortalization .
consistent with methylome alterations , global gene expression analysis reveals that the vast majority of genes dysregulated during cell immortalization belongs to gene families that converge into the mek-erk pathway .
additionally , several dysregulated members of the map kinase network show concomitant hypermethylation of cpg islands .
unlocking alternative epigenetic routes for cell immortalization will be paramount for understanding crucial events leading to cell transformation .
unlike genetic alterations , epigenetic changes are reversible events , and as such , can be amenable to pharmacological interventions , which makes them appealing targets for cancer therapy when genetic approaches prove inadequate .
the number of renal cancers has increased over the last ten years and patient survival in advanced stages remains very poor .
therefore , new therapeutic approaches for renal cancer are essential .
englerin a is a natural product with a very potent and selective cytotoxicity against renal cancer cells .
this makes it a promising drug candidate that may improve current treatment standards for patients with renal cancers in all stages .
however , little is known about englerin a's mode of action in targeting specifically renal cancer cells .
our study is the first to investigate the biological mechanism of englerin a action in detail .
we report that englerin a is specific for renal tumor cells and does not affect normal kidney cells .
we find that englerin a treatment induces necrotic cell death in renal cancer cells but not in normal kidney cells .
we further show that autophagic and pyroptotic proteins are unaffected by the compound and that necrotic signaling in these cells coincided with production of reactive oxygen species and calcium influx into the cytoplasm .
as the first study to analyze the biological effects of englerin a , our work provides an important basis for the evaluation and validation of the compound's use as an anti-tumor drug .
it also provides a context in which to identify the specific target or targets of englerin a in renal cancer cells .
regulation of poly(adp-ribose) ( par ) synthesis and turnover is critical to determining cell fate after genotoxic stress .
hyperactivation of par synthesis by poly(adp-ribose) polymerase-1 ( parp-1 ) occurs when cells deficient in dna repair are exposed to genotoxic agents ; however , the function of this hyperactivation has not been adequately explained .
here , we examine par synthesis in mouse fibroblasts deficient in the base excision repair enzyme dna polymerase  ( pol  ) .
the extent and duration of parp-1 activation was measured after exposure to either the dna alkylating agent , methyl methanesulfonate ( mms ) , or to low energy laser-induced dna damage .
there was strong dna damage-induced hyperactivation of parp-1 in pol  nullcells , but not in wild-type cells .
in the case of mms treatment , par synthesis did not lead to cell death in the pol  null cells , but instead resulted in increased parylation of the nonhomologous end-joining ( nhej ) protein ku70 and increased association of ku70 with parp-1 .
inhibition of the nhej factor dna-pk , under conditions of mms-induced parp-1 hyperactivation , enhanced necrotic cell death .
these data suggest that parp-1 hyperactivation is a protective mechanism triggering the classical-nhej dna repair pathway when the primary alkylated base damage repair pathway is compromised .
thrombospondin-1 is a matricellular protein with potent antitumour activities , the levels of which determine the fate of many different tumours , including renal carcinomas .
however , the factors that regulate this protein remain unclear .
in renal carcinomas , hypoxic conditions enhance the expression of angiogenic factors that help adapt tumour cells to their hostile environment .
therefore , we hypothesized that anti-angiogenic factors should correspondingly be dampened .
indeed , we found that hypoxia decreased the thrombospondin-1 protein in several clear cell renal carcinoma cell lines ( ccrcc ) , although no transcriptional regulation was observed .
furthermore , we proved that hypoxia stimulates multiple signals that independently contribute to diminish thrombospondin-1 in ccrcc , which include a decrease in the activity of oxygen-dependent prolylhydroxylases ( phds ) and activation of the pi3k/akt signalling pathway .
in addition , thrombospondin-1 regulation in hypoxia proved to be important for ccrcc cell migration and invasion .
dna damage induced by benzene and its metabolites is thought of as an important mechanism underlying benzene genotoxicity in chronic benzene poisoning ( cbp ) .
therefore , genetic variation in dna repair genes may contribute to susceptibility to cbp in the exposed population .
since benzene-induced dna damages include dna adducts , we hypothesized that the polymorphisms of ercc1 ( excision repair cross complementation group 1 ) and ercc2/xpd ( excision repair cross complementation group 2/xeroderma pigmentosum group d ) are associated with the risk of cbp .
a case-control study involving 102 benzene-poisoned patients and 204 none-benzene-poisoned controls occupationally exposed to benzene was carried out in the northeast region of china .
the polymorphisms of codon 118 ( rs11615 ) and c8092a ( rs3212986 ) of ercc1 , codon 751 ( rs13181 ) , 312 ( rs1799793 ) and 156 ( rs238406 ) of ercc2/xpd were genotyped by taqman() real-time pcr .
the results showed that individuals carrying the ercc1 codon 118 tt genotype had an increased risk of cbp ( or(adj)=3.390 ; 95%ci : 1.393-8.253 ; p=0.007 ) comparing with its cc genotype .
after stratified by smoking , gender and exposure duration we found that the increased risk of cbp associated with the ercc1 codon 118 tt genotype confined to nonsmokers ( or=3.214 ; 95% ci : 1.359-7.601 ; p=0.006 ) , female ( or=3.049 ; 95% ci : 1.235-7.529 ; p=0.013 ) and exposure duration&gt ; 12 years ( or=3.750 ; 95% ci : 1.041-13.513 ; p=0.035 ) .
since ercc1 and ercc2/xpd are both located on chromosome 19q13.3 , haplotype analysis of all 5 snps was also conducted .
however no correlations between the risks of cbp and other genotypes or haplotypes were found .
therefore , our findings suggest an important role of ercc1 codon 118 polymorphisms for a biomarker to cbp in the chinese occupational population .
the dna repair protein ku70 is a key player in chemoresistance to anticancer agents ( e.g. , etoposide ) or radioresistance .
the responses of different organs to radiation vary widely and likely depend on the cell population in the organs .
previously , we established and characterized ku70-deficient murine lung epithelial ( ku70 -/- mle ) cells and found that these cells are more sensitive than ku70 +/- mle cells ( control cells ) to x-irradiation , as determined by clonogenic survival assay ; however , the mechanism underlying this sensitivity remains unclear .
in this study , we examined the mechanism by which x-irradiation triggers the death of ku70 -/- mle cells .
our results showed that ku70 -/- mle cells were more sensitive to radiation-induced apoptosis than control cells , although x-irradiation activated caspase-3 and caspase-7 , and cleaved parp in both cell lines .
we also examined the expression level of phosphorylated h2ax ( h2ax ) , which is a marker of dsb , and observed the phosphorylation of h2ax and the elimination of h2ax in both cell lines after x-irradiation .
the elimination in ku70 -/- mle cells was slower than that in control cells , suggesting that dsb repair activity in the ku70 -/- mle cells is lower than that in control cells .
these findings suggest that ku70 might play a key role in the inhibition of apoptosis through the dsb repair pathway in lung epithelial cells .
our findings also suggest that these cell lines might be useful for the study of ku70 functions and the ku70-dependent dsb repair pathway in lung epithelial cells .
the main feedback loop driving circadian rhythm in mice is controlled , in part , by the genes encoding the cryptochromes cry1 and cry2 .
targeted mutation of both cry1 and cry2 delay the early onset of tumor formation in p53-null mutant mice .
furthermore , ras-transformed p53- and cry-null mouse skin fibroblasts are more sensitive than p53 mutants to apoptotic cell death initiated by agents that activate either the intrinsic or the extrinsic apoptosis pathways .
here , we investigated the effect of cry1 and cry2 mutations on cell death by other genotoxic agents that generate alkylated bases , interstrand crosslinks , dna-protein crosslinks , and double-strand breaks .
both ultraviolet ( uv ) and the uv mimetic compound oxaliplatin and the radiomimetic compound doxorubicin promoted apoptosis by upregulating the tumor suppressor p73 .
however , only the uv and oxaliplatin-induced upregulation of p73 mediated by the transcription factor egr1 , but not the doxorubicin-induced upregulation mediated by the transcription factor e2f1 , was enhanced by cry1/cry2 double mutation .
accordingly , egr1 downregulation reduced oxaliplatin-induced apoptosis , whereas e2f1 downregulation reduced doxorubicin-induced apoptosis .
our findings establish distinct roles for cryptochromes in intrinsic apoptosis induced by uv mimetic and radiomimetic agents .
more effective treatments for metastatic lung cancer remain a pressing clinical need .
in this study , we identified migration inducting gene-7 ( mig-7 ) protein as critical for cox-2/prostaglandin e2 ( pge2)- and akt/gsk-3-dependent tumor invasion/metastasis .
cox-2/pge2 activated ep4 to enhance akt and gsk-3 phosphorylation and -catenin/t-cell factor/lymphoid enhancer factor signaling leading to mig-7 upregulation .
rnai-mediated attenuation of mig-7 blocked cox-2/pge2- and akt/gsk-3-mediated migration/invasion effects .
furthermore , mig-7 protein inhibited protein phosphatase 2a to sustain akt/gsk-3 phosphorylation and cancer-cell migration/invasion .
cancer cells overexpressing mig-7 exhibited increased expression of zeb-1 and twist in parallel with epithelial-mesenchymal transition , metastasis and cancer lethality .
mig-7 protein level positively correlated with advanced stages of human lung cancers .
mig-7 thus offers a theranostic target for cancer metastases arising from aberrant activation of the cellular cox-2/pge2 and akt/gsk-3 signaling pathways .
ophiopogonin b ( op-b ) is a bioactive component of radix ophiopogon japonicus , which is often used in chinese traditional medicine to treat pulmonary disease .
however , whether or not op-b has any potential antitumor activity has not been reported .
here , we show that the non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) cell lines nci-h157 and nci-h460 treated with op-b grow more slowly and accumulate vacuoles in their cytoplasm compared to untreated control cells .
flow cytometric analysis showed that the cells were arrested in g0/g1 phase .
nuclear morphology , annexin-v/pi staining , and expression of cleaved caspase-3 all confirm that op-b does not induce apoptosis .
instead , based on results from both transmission electron microscopy ( tem ) and the expression of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3-ii ( lc3-ii ) , we determined that op-b treatment induced autophagy in both cell lines .
next , we examined the pi3k/akt/mtor signaling pathway and found that op-b inhibited phosphorylation of akt(ser473 , thr308 ) in nci-h157 cells and also inhibited several key components of the pathway in nci-h460 cells , such as p-akt(ser473 , thr308 ) , p-p70s6k ( thr389 ) .
additionally , insulin-mediated activation of the pi3k/akt/mtor pathway provides evidence that activation of this pathway may correlate with induction of autophagy in h460 cells .
therefore , op-b is a prospective inhibitor of pi3k/akt and may be used as an alternative compound to treat nsclc .
it is well established that angiogenesis is the process of formation of new capillaries from pre-existing blood vessels .
it is a complex process , involving both pro- and anti-angiogenic factors , and plays a significant role in physiological and pathophysiological processes such as embryonic development , atherosclerosis , post-ischemic vascularization of the myocardium , tumor growth and metastasis , rheumatoid arthritis etc .
this is the first report of zinc oxide ( zno ) nanoflowers that show significant pro-angiogenic properties ( formation of new capillaries from pre-existing blood vessels ) , observed by in vitro and in vivo angiogenesis assays .
the egg yolk angiogenesis assay using zno nanoflowers indicates the presence of matured blood vessels formation .
additionally , it helps to promote endothelial cell ( ea.hy926 cells ) migration in wound healing assays .
formation of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) , especially hydrogen peroxide ( h(2)o(2))-a redox signaling molecule , might be the plausible mechanism for nanoflower-based angiogenesis .
angiogenesis by nanoflowers may provide the basis for the future development of new alternative therapeutic treatment strategies for cardiovascular and ischemic diseases , where angiogenesis plays a significant role .
tumor development requires angiogenesis and anti-angiogenic therapies have been introduced in the treatment of cancer .
in this context , heparan sulfate proteoglycans ( hspgs ) emerge as interesting targets , owing to their function as co-receptors of major , pro-angiogenic factors .
accordingly , previous studies have suggested anti-tumor effects of heparin , i.e. over-sulfated hs , and various heparin mimetics ; however , a significant drawback is their unspecific mechanism of action and potentially serious side-effects related to their anticoagulant properties .
here , we have explored the use of human scfv anti-hs antibodies ( hs ) as a more rational approach to target hspg function in endothelial cells ( ecs). hs were initially selected for their recognition of hs epitopes localized preferentially to the vasculature of patient glioblastoma tumors , i.e. highly angiogenic brain tumors .
unexpectedly , we found that these hs exhibited potent pro-angiogenic effects in primary human ecs. hs were shown to stimulate ec differentiation , which was associated with increased ec tube formation and proliferation .
moreover , hs supported ec survival under hypoxia and starvation , i.e. conditions typical of the tumor microenvironment .
importantly , hs-mediated proliferation was efficiently counter-acted by heparin and was absent in hspg-deficient mutant cells , confirming hs-specific effects .
on a mechanistic level , binding of hs to hspgs of ecs as well as glioblastoma cells was found to trigger p38 mapk-dependent signaling resulting in increased proliferation .
we conclude that several hs that recognize hs epitopes abundant in the tumor vasculature may elicit a pro-angiogenic response , which has implications for the development of antibody-based targeting of hspgs in cancer .
metastasis is a major cause of death of patients with malignant tumors .
matrix metalloproteinases ( mmps ) are important for the migration and invasion of various types of cancer cell .
propofol is a known anesthetic agent , widely used for short-term anesthesia and for longer-term sedation .
propofol inhibits the proliferation of a variety of tumor cells , but there is no available information regarding propofol-inhibited migration and invasion of tumor cells in vitro .
in this study , we investigated the effects of propofol on the migration and invasion of human lung carcinoma a549 cells .
wound healing assay and boyden chamber assays indicated that propofol inhibited the migration and invasion of a549 cells in vitro .
gelatin zymographic analysis showed the inhibitory effect of propofol on the activation of expression mmp-2 .
western blot analysis also indicated that propofol suppressed the protein expiration of growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 ( grb2 ) , jun n-terminal kinases 1/2 ( p-jnk1/2 ) , p-p38 , mmp-2 and mmp-9 in a549 cells .
results from real-time pcr assay also showed that propofol inhibited the mrna gene expression of mmp-2 , -7 and -9 , and enhanced that of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 ( timp1 ) and timp2 in a549 cells .
taken together , these data show that propofol inhibits mmp-2 and -9 mrna and protein expressions , resulting in suppression of lung cancer cell invasion and migration in vitro .
adhesion to the extracellular matrix ( ecm ) is critical for epithelial tissue homeostasis and function .
ecm detachment induces metabolic stress and programmed cell death via anoikis .
ecm-detached mammary epithelial cells are able to rapidly activate autophagy allowing for survival and an opportunity for re-attachment .
however , the mechanisms controlling detachment-induced autophagy remain unclear .
here we uncover that the kinase perk rapidly promotes autophagy in ecm-detached cells by activating amp-activated protein kinase ( ampk ) , resulting in downstream inhibition of mtorc1-p70(s6k) signaling .
lkb1 and tsc2 , but not tsc1 , are required for perk-mediated inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycinin mcf10a cells and mouse embryo fibroblast cells .
importantly , this pathway shows fast kinetics , is transcription-independent and is exclusively activated during ecm detachment , but not by canonical endoplasmic reticulum stressors .
moreover , enforced perk or ampk activation upregulates autophagy and causes luminal filling during acinar morphogenesis by perpetuating a population of surviving autophagic luminal cells that resist anoikis .
hence , we identify a novel pathway in which suspension-activated perk promotes the activation of lkb1 , ampk and tsc2 , leading to the rapid induction of detachment-induced autophagy .
we propose that increased autophagy , secondary to persistent perk and lkb1-ampk signaling , can robustly protect cells from anoikis and promote luminal filling during early carcinoma progression.oncogene advance online publication , 19 november 2012 ; doi:10.1038/onc.2012.512 .
in response to genotoxic stress , a transient arrest in cell-cycle progression enforced by the dna-damage checkpoint ( ddc ) signalling pathway positively contributes to genome maintenance .
because hyperactivated ddc signalling can lead to a persistent and detrimental cell-cycle arrest , cells must tightly regulate the activity of the kinases involved in this pathway .
despite their importance , the mechanisms for monitoring and modulating ddc signalling are not fully understood .
here we show that the dna-repair scaffolding proteins slx4 and rtt107 prevent the aberrant hyperactivation of ddc signalling by lesions that are generated during dna replication in saccharomyces cerevisiae .
on replication stress , cells lacking slx4 or rtt107 show hyperactivation of the downstream ddc kinase rad53 , whereas activation of the upstream ddc kinase mec1 remains normal .
an slx4-rtt107 complex counteracts the checkpoint adaptor rad9 by physically interacting with dpb11 and phosphorylated histone h2a , two positive regulators of rad9-dependent rad53 activation .
a decrease in ddc signalling results from hypomorphic mutations in rad53 and h2a and rescues the hypersensitivity to replication stress of cells lacking slx4 or rtt107 .
we propose that the slx4-rtt107 complex modulates rad53 activation by a competition-based mechanism that balances the engagement of rad9 at replication-induced lesions .
our findings show that ddc signalling is monitored and modulated through the direct action of dna-repair factors .
background thymidine phosphorylase ( tymp ) is an angiogenic factor that has potent chemotactic activity for endothelial cells and is involved in 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) metabolism .
in colorectal cancer ( crc ) , previous studies evaluating the relationship between tymp expression and clinicopathological features have yielded inconsistent results .
the aim of this study was to investigate the prognostic value of tymp , its association with other angiogenic factors , proliferation markers and , to our knowledge , for the first time its relationship with extracellular matrix components .
materials and methods formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded specimens from 97 patients with crc were immunostained for tymp , vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) , microvascular density ( cd34 ) , proliferation marker ( ki-67 ) , proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( pcna ) , p53 oncoprotein and extracellular matrix components ( collagen type iv , fibronectin , tenascin and laminin ) .
survival curves were calculated with the kaplan-meier method .
results immunoreactivity was observed in the cytoplasm ( cyt ) and nucleus ( n ) of the tumor cells , as well in the stroma ( st ) , endothelium and tumor-associated macrophages .
high tympcyt expression was observed in 7.2% of the cases , moderate in 22.7% and weak in 59.9% , while 10.3% were negative .
high tympst expression was observed in 58.8% of the cases .
tympcyt expression was correlated with the vegf expression of tumor cells and vegf expression of vessels ( p=0.014 and p=0.022 , respectively ) .
tympst expression was correlated with vegf expression and tenascin ( p=0.014 and p=0.011 , respectively ) .
patients with higher tympcyt expression had a more favorable overall survival ( p=0.041 ) in univariate analysis compared to patients without tymp expression .
conclusion these findings suggest that tymp plays an important role in angiogenesis , extracellular matrix remodeling and in the prognosis of patients with crc , but further studies are needed to clearly define its role in crc .
olfactomedin 4 ( olfm4 ) is highly expressed in gastrointestinal cancers and has an anti-apoptotic function .
the roles of olfm4 in tumor growth and metastasis and how it functions in these processes remain elusive .
we investigated the function of olfm4 in tumor growth and metastasis using b16f10 mouse melanoma cells as an experimental system .
our results showed that olfm4 had no positive effect on cell viability or cell cycle progression in b16f10 cells .
however , it significantly suppressed the tumorigenicity of b16f10 cells , i.e. , intradermal primary tumor growth and lung metastasis .
olfm4 also suppressed the migration and invasion of b16f10 cells in vitro .
for further insight into the mechanisms underlying olfm4-mediated suppression of tumor progression , we examined the effect of olfm4 on the expression of integrin and matrix metalloproteinase ( mmp ) , both of which are involved in tumor progression .
overexpression of olfm4 clearly reduced the expression levels of integrin 1 , integrin 4 , integrin 5 , integrin 6 , and mmp9 .
moreover , forced expression of mmp9 attenuated the inhibitory activity of olfm4 on migration and invasiveness .
our findings provide the experimental evidence that olfm4 may function as a tumor suppressor and an anti-metastatic gene during tumor progression .
endothelial cells respond to hypoxic changes with resultant accumulation of several metabolites and switch over to angiogenic phenotype .
although certain intermediates of glycolytic and oxidative metabolic pathways have been known to affect angiogenesis , the effect of citrate , which accumulates in certain tumors , on angiogenesis is not known .
therefore , the effect of citrate on angiogenesis was studied using different model systems .
increased vascularization in chorioallantoic membrane assay , increased endothelial sprouting in rat aortic rings , and increased expression of cd31 , e-selectin in endothelial cells suggested a possible proangiogenic effect of citrate .
upregulation of angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor and fibroblast growth factor suggested that the effect of citrate involves modulation of expression of angiogenic growth factors .
ly 294002 , an inhibitor of pi3k-akt pathway , and wortmannin , an inhibitor of akt pathway , reversed the effect of citrate in human umbilical vein endothelial cells .
citrate induced significant upregulation and activation of akt in endothelial cells .
rapamycin , an inhibitor of mtor , also reversed the effect of citrate in human umbilical vein endothelial cells and sprouting of aortic rings suggesting that the angiogenic effect of citrate involves activation of pi3k-akt-mtor pathway .
a key requirement for the development of cancer immunotherapy is the identification of tumour-associated antigens that are differentially or exclusively expressed on the tumour and recognized by the host immune system .
however , immune responses to such antigens are often muted or lacking due to the antigens being recognized as " self " , and further complicated by the tumour environment and regulation of immune cells within .
in an effort to circumvent the lack of immune responses to tumour antigens , we have devised a strategy to develop potential synthetic immunogens .
the strategy , termed mirror image phage display , is based on the concept of molecular mimicry as demonstrated by the idiotype/anti-idiotype paradigm in the immune system .
here as ' proof of principle ' we have selected molecular mimics of the well-characterised tumour associated antigen , the human mucin1 protein ( muc1 ) from two different peptide phage display libraries .
the putative mimics were compared in structure and function to that of the native antigen .
our results demonstrate that several of the mimic peptides display t-cell stimulation activity in vitro when presented by matured dendritic cells .
the mimic peptides and the native muc1 antigenic epitopes can cross-stimulate t-cells .
the data also indicate that sequence homology and/or chemical properties to the original epitope are not the sole determining factors for the observed immunostimulatory activity of the mimic peptides .
colon cancer is the third most common malignant neoplasm in the world and it remains an important cause of death , especially in western countries .
the toxic environmental pollutant , 1 , 2-dimethylhydrazine ( dmh ) , is also a colon-specific carcinogen .
tannic acid ( ta ) is reported to be effective against various types of chemically induced toxicity and also carcinogenesis .
in the present study , we evaluated the chemopreventive efficacy of ta against dmh induced colon toxicity in a rat model .
efficacy of ta against the colon toxicity was evaluated in terms of biochemical estimation of antioxidant enzyme activities , lipid peroxidation , histopathological changes and expression of early molecular markers of inflammation and tumor promotion .
dmh treatment induced oxidative stress enzymes ( p&lt;0.001 ) and an early inflammatory and tumor promotion response in the colons of wistar rats .
ta treatment prevented deteriorative effects induced by dmh through a protective mechanism that involved reduction of oxidative stress as well as cox-2 , i-nos , pcna protein expression levels and tnf-(p&lt;0.001) release .
it could be concluded from our results that ta markedly protects against chemically induced colon toxicity and acts plausibly by virtue of its antioxidant , anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative activities .
senescence is a cellular response preventing tumorigenesis .
the ras oncogene is frequently activated or mutated in human cancers , but ras activation is insufficient to transform primary cells .
ina search for cooperating oncogenes , we identify the lysine demethylase jmjd2a/kdm4a .
we show that jmjd2a functions as a negative regulator of ras-induced senescence and collaborates with oncogenic ras to promote cellular transformation by negatively regulating the p53 pathway .
we find chd5 , a known tumor suppressor regulating p53 activity , as a target of jmjd2a .
the expression of jmjd2a inhibits ras-mediated chd5 induction leading to a reduced activity of the p53 pathway .
in addition , we show that jmjd2a is overexpressed inmouse and human lung cancers .
depletion of jmjd2a in the human lung cancer cell line a549 bearing an activated k-ras allele triggers senescence .
we propose that jmjd2a is an oncogene that represents a target for ras-expressing tumors .
the omega-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids , docosahexaenoic acid ( dha ) and eicosapentaenoic acid ( epa ) , elicit antiproliferative effects in cancer cell lines and in animal models .
dietary dha and epa can be converted to their ethanolamine derivatives , docosahexaenoyl ethanolamine ( dhea ) and eicosapentaenoyl ethanolamine ( epea ) , respectively ; however , few studies are reported on their anticancer activities .
here , we demonstrated that dhea and epea were able to reduce cell viability in mcf-7 breast cancer cells whereas they did not elicit any effects in mcf-10a non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cells .
since dha and epa are ligands of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ( ppar )  , we sought to determine whether ppar may also mediate dhea and epea actions .
in mcf-7 cells , both compounds enhanced ppar expression , stimulated a ppar response element-dependent transcription as confirmed by the increased expression of its target gene pten , resulting in the inhibition of akt-mtor pathways .
besides , dhea and epea treatment induced phosphorylation of bcl-2 promoting its dissociation from beclin-1 which resulted in autophagy induction .
we also observed an increase of beclin-1 and microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 expression along with an enhanced autophagosomes formation as revealed by mono-dansyl-cadaverine staining .
finally , we demonstrated the involvement of ppar in dhea- and epea-induced autophagy by using sirna technology and a selective inhibitor .
in summary , our data show that the two omega-3 ethanolamines exert antiproliferative effects by inducing autophagy in breast cancer cells highlighting their potential use as breast cancer preventive and/or therapeutic agents .
j. cell .
physiol.  2012 wiley periodicals , inc .
necrotic cells are known to activate the innate immune system and trigger inflammation by releasing damage associated molecular patterns ( damps ) .
however , how necrotic cells influence the induction of antigen-specific cd8(+) t cell-mediated adaptive immune responses under sterile conditions , in the absence of pathogen associated molecular patterns ( pamps ) , remains poorly understood .
here , we examined antigen-specific cd8(+) t-cell responses to primary sterile necrotic tumor cells both in vitro and in vivo .
we found that primary necrotic cells alone fail to generate cd8(+) t cell-dependent immune responses toward cell-associated antigens .
we show that necrotic cells trigger cd8(+) t-cell immunity only in the presence of pamps or analogs , such as p(di-dc) and/or unmethylated cpg dna .
the electroporation of tumor cells with these pamps prior to necrosis induction triggered antigen-specific cd8(+) t-cell responses through a tlr9/myd88-dependent pathway .
in addition , we found that necrotic cells contain factors that can block the cross-priming of cd8(+) t cells even under non-sterile conditions and can serve as a possible mechanism of immunosuppression .
these results suggest that antigen-specific cd8(+) t-cell responses to primary necrotic tumor cells can be induced in the presence of pamps and thus have a substantial impact on the development of antitumor vaccination strategies .
purpose we did this retrospective study to explore the association between epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) mutation and clinical features in postoperative recurrent female non-small-cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) .
materials and methods we reviewed clinical data on 86 female patients who had postoperative recurrent disease between december 1992 and july 2007 .
the start of tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy was treated as a censoring event .
corresponding surgical specimens of primary tumors were used to test for egfr mutations .
results thirty patients presented with local recurrence and distant recurrence was identified in 56 .
thirty-four of the 86 patients ( 40% ) harbored egfr mutations .
patients with distant recurrence were more likely to have egfr mutations than patients with local recurrence ( 48% versus 23% ; p = 0.024 ) .
on multivariate analysis , distant recurrence was associated with a high frequency of egfr mutations ( or , 3.3 ; p = 0.028 ) .
survival analysis showed poor survival of patients with mutated egfr ( hr , 2.3 ; p = 0.017 ) or with non-adenocarcinoma histology ( hr , 3.3 ; p = 0.001 ) .
conclusion the association between recurrence pattern and egfr mutation status was suggested in recurrent female nsclc patients .
in addition , our data indicate unfavorable disease process of egfr mutated tumors .
further studies need to be conducted to validate these findings .
pyruvate kinase m2 ( pkm2 ) is upregulated in multiple cancer types and contributes to the warburg effect by unclear mechanisms .
here we demonstrate that egfr-activated erk2 binds directly to pkm2 ile429/leu431 through the erk2 docking groove and phosphorylates pkm2 at ser37 , but does not phosphorylate pkm1 .
phosphorylated pkm2 ser37 recruits pin1 for cis-trans isomerization of pkm2 , which promotes pkm2 binding to importin 5 and translocating to the nucleus .
nuclear pkm2 acts as a coactivator of -catenin to induce c-myc expression , resulting in the upregulation of glut1 , ldha and , in a positive feedback loop , ptb-dependent pkm2 expression .
replacement of wild-type pkm2 with a nuclear translocation-deficient mutant ( s37a ) blocks the egfr-promoted warburg effect and brain tumour development in mice .
in addition , levels of pkm2 ser37 phosphorylation correlate with egfr and erk1/2 activity in human glioblastoma specimens .
our findings highlight the importance of nuclear functions of pkm2 in the warburg effect and tumorigenesis .
telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein consisting of a catalytic subunit , the telomerase reverse transcriptase , tert , and an integrally associated rna , tr , which contains a template for the synthesis of short repetitive g-rich dna sequences at the ends of telomeres .
telomerase can repetitively reverse transcribe its short rna template , acting processively to add multiple telomeric repeats onto the same dna substrate .
the contribution of enzyme processivity to telomere length regulation in human cells is not well characterized .
in cancer cells , under homeostatic telomere length-maintenance conditions , telomerase acts processively , while under nonequilibrium conditions , telomerase acts distributively on the shortest telomeres .
to investigate the role of increased telomerase processivity on telomere length regulation in human cells with limited lifespan that are dependent on human tert ( htert ) for lifespan extension and immortalization , we mutated the leucine at position 866 in the reverse transcriptase c motif of htert to a tyrosine ( l866y ) , which is the amino acid found at a similar position in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase .
we report that , similar to the previously reported ' gain of function ' tetrahymena telomerase mutant ( l813y ) , the human telomerase variant displays increased processivity. htert-l866y , like wild-type htert can immortalize and extend the lifespan of limited lifespan cells .
moreover , htert-l866y expressing cells display heterogenous telomere lengths , telomere elongation , multiple telomeric signals indicative of fragile sites and replicative stress , and an increase in short telomeres , which is accompanied by telomere trimming events .
our results suggest that telomere length and homeostasis in human cells may be regulated by telomerase enzyme processivity .
background phosphorylation of the h2ax histone is an early indicator of dna double-strand breaks and of the resulting dna damage response .
in the present study , we assessed the expression and prognostic significance of -h2ax in a cohort of 96 patients with operable non-small cell lung carcinoma .
methods ninety-six paraffin-embedded specimens of non-small cell lung cancer patients were examined .
all patients underwent radical thoracic surgery of primary tumor ( lobectomy or pneumonectomy ) and regional lymph node dissection. -h2ax expression was assessed by standard immunohistochemistry .
follow-up was available for all patients ; mean duration of follow-up was 27.50  14.07 months ( range 0.2-57 months , median 24 months ) .
results sixty-three patients ( 65.2% ) died during the follow-up period .
the mean survival time was 32.2  1.9 months ( 95% confidence interval [ ci ] : 28.5-35.8 months ; median 30.0 months ) ; 1- , 2- and 3-year survival rates were 86.5%  3.5% , 57.3%  5.1% , and 37.1%  5.4% , respectively .
low -h2ax expression was associated with a significantly better survival as compared with those having high -h2ax expression ( 35.3 months for low -h2ax expression versus 23.2 months for high -h2ax expression , p = 0.009 ; hazard ratio [ hr ] 1.95 , 95% ci : 1.15-3.30 ) .
further investigation with multivariate cox proportional hazards regression analysis revealed that high expression of -h2ax remained an independent prognostic factor of shorter overall survival ( hr 2.15 , 95% ci : 1.22-3.79 , p = 0.026 ) .
a combined p53/-h2ax analysis was performed , and we found that the p53 low/-h2ax low phenotype was associated with significantly better survival compared with all other phenotypes .
conclusion our study is the first to demonstrate that expression of -h2ax detected by immunohistochemistry may represent an independent prognostic indicator of overall survival in patients with non-small cell lung cancer .
further studies are needed to confirm our results .
endoplasmic reticulum ( er ) stress induces both autophagy and apoptosis yet the molecular mechanisms and pathways underlying the regulation of these two cellular processes in cells undergoing er stress remain less clear .
we report here that eukaryotic elongation factor-2 kinase ( eef2k ) is a critical controller of the er stress-induced autophagy and apoptosis in tumor cells .
ddit4 , a stress-induced protein , was required for transducing the signal for activation of eef2k under er stress .
we further showed that phosphorylation of eef2k at ser398 was essential for induction of autophagy , while phosphorylation of the kinase at ser366 and ser78 exerted an inhibitory effect on autophagy .
suppression of the er stress-activated autophagy via silencing of eef2k aggravated er stress and promoted apoptotic cell death in tumor cells .
moreover , inhibiting eef2k by either rnai or nh125 , a small molecule inhibitor of the enzyme , rendered tumor cells more sensitive to curcumin and velcade , two anticancer agents that possess er stress-inducing action .
our study indicated that the ddit4-eef2k pathway was essential for inducing autophagy and for determining the fate of tumor cells under er stress , and suggested that inhibiting the eef2k-mediated autophagy can deteriorate er stress and lead to a greater apoptotic response , thereby potentiating the efficacy of the er stress-inducing agents against cancer .
that a knock-in mouse harboring a dominant-negative thyroid hormone receptor ( tr)- ( thrb ) mutation develops metastatic thyroid cancer strongly suggests the involvement of tr in carcinogenesis .
epigenetic silencing of the thrb gene is common in human cancers .
the aim of the present study was to determine how dna methylation affected the expression of the thrb gene in differentiated thyroid cancer ( dtc ) and how reexpression of the thrb gene attenuated the cancer phenotypes .
we used methylation-specific pcr to examine the expression and promoter methylation of the thrb gene in dtc tissues .
thyroid cancer cells with hypermethylated thrb were treated with the demethylating agents 5'-aza-2'-deoxycytidine ( 5'-aza-cdr ) and zebularine to evaluate their impact on the cancer cell phenotypes .
thrb mrna expression in dtc was 90% lower than in normal controls , and this decrease was associated with a higher tumor/lymph node staging .
the promoter methylation level of the thrb gene had a significant negative correlation with the expression level of the thrb gene .
treatment of ftc-236 cells with 5'-aza-cdr or zebularine induced reexpression of the thrb gene and inhibited cell proliferation and migration .
ftc-236 cells stably expressing tr exhibited lower cell proliferation and migration through inhibition of -catenin signaling pathways compared with ftc-236 without tr. 5'-aza-cdr also led to suppression of tumor growth in an in vivo xenograft model using ftc-236 cells consistent with the cell-based studies .
these finding indicate that tr is a tumor suppressor and could be tested as a potential therapeutic target .
this study aimed to analyze the role of endothelial progenitor cell ( epc)-derived angiogenic factors and chemokines in the multistep process driving angiogenesis with a focus on the recently discovered macrophage migration inhibitory factor ( mif)/chemokine receptor axis .
primary murine and murine embryonic epcs ( eepcs ) were analyzed for the expression of angiogenic/chemokines and components of the mif/cxc chemokine receptor axis , focusing on the influence of hypoxic versus normoxic stimulation .
hypoxia induced an upregulation of cxcr2 and cxcr4 but not cd74 on epcs and triggered the secretion of cxcl12 , cxcl1 , mif , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) .
these factors stimulated the transmigration activity and adhesive capacity of epcs , with mif and vegf exhibiting the strongest effects under hypoxia .
mif- , vegf- , cxcl12- , and cxcl1-stimulated epcs enhanced tube formation , with mif and vegf exhibiting again the strongest effect following hypoxia .
tube formation following in vivo implantation utilizing angiogenic factor-loaded matrigel plugs was only promoted by vegf .
coloading of plugs with eepcs led to enhanced tube formation only by cxcl12 , whereas mif was the only factor which induced differentiation towards an endothelial and smooth muscle cell ( smc ) phenotype , indicating an angiogenic and differentiation capacity in vivo .
surprisingly , cxcl12 , a chemoattractant for smooth muscle progenitor cells , inhibited smc differentiation .
we have identified a role for epc-derived proangiogenic mif , vegf and mif receptors in epc recruitment following hypoxia , epc differentiation and subsequent tube and vessel formation , whereas cxcl12 , a mediator of early epc recruitment , does not contribute to the remodeling process .
by discerning the contributions of key angiogenic chemokines and epcs , these findings offer valuable mechanistic insight into mouse models of angiogenesis and help to define the intricate interplay between epc-derived angiogenic cargo factors , epcs , and the angiogenic target tissue .
there are contradictory observations about the different radiosensitivities of cancer stem cells and cancer non-stem cells .
to resolve these contradictory observations , we studied radiosensitivities by employing breast cancer stem cell ( csc)-like mda-mb231 and mda-mb453 cells as well as their corresponding non-stem cells .
csc-like cells proliferate without differentiating and have characteristics of tumor-initiating cells [ 1 ] .
these cells were exposed to -rays ( 1.25-8.75 gy ) and survival curves were determined by colony formation .
a final slope , d(0) , of the survival curve for each cell line was determined to measure radiosensitivity .
the d(0) of csc-like and non-stem mda-mb-453 cells were 1.16 gy and 1.55 gy , respectively .
similar results were observed in mda-mb-231 cells ( 0.94 gy vs. 1.56 gy ) .
after determination of radiosensitivity , we investigated intrinsic cellular determinants which influence radiosensitivity including cell cycle distribution , free-radical scavengers and dna repair .
we observed that even though cell cycle status and antioxidant content may contribute to differential radiosensitivity , differential dna repair capacity may be a greater determinant of radiosensitivity .
unlike non-stem cells , csc-like cells have little/no sublethal damage repair , a low intracellular level of ataxia telangiectasia mutated ( atm ) and delay of -h2ax foci removal ( dna strand break repair ) .
these results suggest that low dna repair capacity is responsible for the high radiosensitivity of these csc-like cells .
we have already shown that il-10 plays an important role in immunosuppression and metastatic dissemination in the rat b-cell lymphoma l-tacb model .
it was suggested that the up-regulation of il-10 production and il-10 receptor ( il-10r ) expression would be part of the transition from primary tumor to metastatic phenotype and that il-10 , besides its immunosuppressive activity , may act as a growth factor for metastatic l-tacb cells .
the treatment of l-tacb-bearing rats with a single low-dose cyclophosphamide decreased il-10 production , reverted immunosuppression and induced the immunologic rejection of tumor metastasis without any effect on primary tumor growth .
our current aim was to investigate the effects of cyclophosphamide on the expression of il-10 and il-10r on primary and metastatic l-tacb cells .
considering that cyclophosphamide is a prodrug , we used mafosfamide , a compound that yields in vitro the same active metabolites as cyclophosphamide does in vivo .
mafosfamide induced down-regulation of il-10 production and il-10r expression on metastatic cells and , concomitantly , inhibited metastatic cell proliferation .
we suggest that mafosfamide would inhibit the regulatory loop mediated by the il-10/il-10r system and , as a consequence , metastatic cell proliferation .
these results may have a considerable impact on the design of new therapies for metastatic lymphomas .
when the cell cycle is arrested , even though growth-promoting pathways such as mtor are still active , then cells senesce .
for example , induction of either p21 or p16 arrests the cell cycle without inhibiting mtor , which , in turn , converts p21/p16-induced arrest into senescence ( geroconversion ) .
here we show that geroconversion is accompanied by dramatic accumulation of cyclin d1 followed by cyclin e and replicative stress .
when p21 was switched off , senescent cells ( despite their loss of proliferative potential ) progressed through s phase , and levels of cyclins d1 and e dropped .
most cells entered mitosis and then died , either during mitotic arrest or after mitotic slippage , or underwent endoreduplication .
next , we investigated whether inhibition of mtor would prevent accumulation of cyclins and loss of mitotic competence in p21-arrested cells .
both nutlin-3 , which inhibits mtor in these cells , and rapamycin suppressed geroconversion during p21-induced arrest , decelerated accumulation of cyclins d1 and e and decreased replicative stress .
when p21 was switched off , cells successfully progressed through both s phase and mitosis .
also , senescent mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( mefs ) overexpressed cyclin d1 .
after release from cell cycle arrest , senescent mefs entered s phase but could not undergo mitosis and did not proliferate .
we conclude that cellular senescence is characterized by futile hyper-mitogenic drive associated with mtor-dependent mitotic incompetence .
gastrointestinal stromal tumor ( gist ) is a prototype of mutant kit oncogene-driven tumor .
prolonged tyrosine kinase inhibitor ( tki ) treatment may result in a resistant phenotype through acquired secondary kit mutation .
heat shock protein 90 ( hsp90aa1 ) is a chaperone protein responsible for protein maturation and stability , and kit is a known client protein of hsp90aa1 .
inhibition of hsp90aa1 has been shown to destabilize kit protein by enhancing its degradation via the proteasome-dependent pathway .
in this study , we demonstrated that nvp-auy922 ( auy922 ) , a new class of hsp90aa1 inhibitor , is effective in inhibiting the growth of gist cells expressing mutant kit protein , the imatinib-sensitive gist882 and imatinib-resistant gist48 cells .
the growth inhibition was accompanied with a sustained reduction of both total and phosphorylated kit proteins and the induction of apoptosis in both cell lines .
surprisingly , auy922-induced kit reduction could be partially reversed by pharmacological inhibition of either autophagy or proteasome degradation pathway .
the blockade of autophagy alone led to the accumulation of the kit protein , highlighting the role of autophagy in endogenous kit turnover .
the involvement of autophagy in endogenous and auy922-induced kit protein turnover was further confirmed by the colocalization of kit with map1lc3b- , acridine orange- or sqstm1-labeled autophagosome , and by the accumulation of kit in gist cells by silencing either becn1 or atg5 to disrupt autophagosome activity .
therefore , the results not only highlight the potential application of auy922 for the treatment of kit-expressing gists , but also provide the first evidence for the involvement of autophagy in endogenous and hsp90aa1 inhibitor-induced kit degradation .
prohibiting angiogenesis is an important therapeutic approach for fighting cancer and other angiogenic related diseases .
research focused on proteins that regulate abnormal angiogenesis has attracted intense interest in both academia and industry .
such proteins are able to target several angiogenic factors concurrently , thereby increasing the possibility of therapeutic success .
aquaporin-1 ( aqp1 ) is a water channel membrane protein that promotes tumour angiogenesis by allowing faster endothelial cell migration .
in this study we test the hypothesis that aqp1 inhibition impairs tumour growth in a mouse model of melanoma .
after validating the inhibitor efficacy of two different aqp1 specific sirnas in cell cultures , rna interference experiments were performed by intratumoural injections of aqp1 sirnas in mice .
after 6 days of treatment , aqp1 sirna treated tumours showed a 75 % reduction in volume when compared to controls .
aqp1 protein level , in aqp1 knockdown tumours , was around 75 % that of the controls and was associated with a significant 40 % reduced expression of the endothelial marker , factor viii .
immunofluorescence analysis of aqp1 sirna treated tumours showed a significantly lower microvessel density .
time course experiments demonstrated that repeated injections of aqp1 sirna over time are effective in sustaining the inhibition of tumour growth .
finally , we have confirmed the role of aqp1 in sustaining an active endothelium during angiogenesis and we have shown that aqp1 reduction causes an increase in vegf levels .
in conclusion , this study validates aqp1 as a pro-angiogenic protein , relevant for the therapy of cancer and other angiogenic-related diseases such as psoriasis , endometriosis , arthritis and atherosclerosis .
bisphenol a is a monomer used in the production of polycarbonate plastics , epoxy resins , and flame retardants .
it is an endocrine disruptor with a variety of other effects , including genotoxicity .
oxidative metabolism of bisphenol a yields electophilic bisphenol a-3,4-quinone ( bpaq ) , which may cause genotoxicity .
to determine the genotoxic potential of bisphenol a , the mechanism of the reaction between the bpaq and deoxyadenosine ( da ) was studied in detail .
the most probable reaction pathway was determined using quantum chemical methods .
our results demonstrate that the rate limiting step is michael addition between bpaq and da , the main product being the unstable n7-modified adduct that rapidly undergoes depurination .
in addition , our calculations provide strong evidence for protonation of the adducts prior to depurination , which indicates ph dependence of the reaction .
the calculated activation barrier for michael addition is 28.7 kcal/mol , indicating that the reaction with da is very slow .
comparison with the activation energy of 23.1 kcal/mol for the corresponding deoxyguanosine reaction indicates that most of the dna damage by bpaq will occur at the guanine site .
the detoxification reactions with glutathione compete with reactions between bpaq and dna .
the calculated free energy of activation for the reaction with glutathione is significantly lower than that for the corresponding reaction with da .
this indicates that bpaq will preferably react with glutathione and will only react with dna when the level of glutathione in the cell is low .
background cellular and clinical sensitivity to ionizing radiation ( ir ) is determined by dna double-strand breaks ( dsb ) repair .
here , we investigate the molecular mechanism underlying the extreme response of a head and neck tumor case ( skx ) to standard radiotherapy .
methods immunofluorescence ( if ) was used for the assessment of dsb repair , western blot and real-time pcr for protein and mrna expression , respectively .
results skx cells exhibited a pronounced radiosensitivity associated with numerous residual -h2ax foci after ir .
this was not associated with lacking canonical repair proteins .
skx cells did not express any atm protein .
accordingly , immunoblotting revealed no atm kinase activity toward substrates such as p-smc1 , p-chk2 and p-kap1 .
sequencing of all 66 exons of atm showed no mutation .
atm mrna level was moderately reduced , which could be reverted by 5'-aza-c treatment but without restoring protein levels .
importantly , we demonstrated a post-transcriptional regulation in skx cells via 6-fold enhanced levels of mir-421 , which targets the 3'-utr of atm mrna .
transfection of skx cells with either anti-mir-421 inhibitor or a microrna-insensitive atm vector recovered atm expression and abrogated the hyper-radiosensitivity .
conclusion this is the first report describing microrna-mediated down-regulation of atm leading to clinically manifest tumor radiosensitivity .
autophagy , or autophagocytosis , is a selective intracellular degradative process involving the cell's own lysosomal apparatus .
an essential component in cell development , homeostasis , repair and resistance to stress , autophagy may result in either cell death or survival .
the targeted region of the cell is sequestered within a membrane structure , the autophagosome , for regulation of the catabolic process .
a key factor in both autophagosome formation and autophagosome maturation is a protein encoded by the ultraviolet irradiation resistance-associated gene ( uvrag ) .
conversely , the serine/threonine-specific protein kinase b ( pkb , also known as akt ) , which regulates survival in various cancers , inhibits autophagy through mtor activation .
we found that akt1 may also directly inhibit autophagy by down-regulating uvrag both in a 293t transient transfection system and breast cancer cells stably expressing akt1 .
the uvrag with mutations at putative akt1-phosphorylation sites were still inhibited by akt1 , and dominant-negative akt1 also inhibited uvrag expression , suggesting that akt1 down-regulates uvrag by a kinase activity-independent mechanism .
we showed that akt1 overexpression in mda-mb-231 breast cancer cells down-regulated uvrag transcription .
cells over-expressing akt1 were more resistant than control cells to ultraviolet light-induced autophagy and exhibited the associated reduction in cell viability .
levels of the autophagosome indicator protein lc3b-ii and mrfp-gfp-lc3 were reduced in cells that over-expressing akt1 .
inhibiting akt1 by sirna or reintroducing uvrag gene rescued the level of lc3b-ii in uv-irradiation .
altogether , these data suggest that akt1 may inhibit autophagy by decreasing uvrag expression , which also sensitizes cancer cells to uv irradiation .
von hippel-lindau ( vhl ) is a tumor suppressor that negatively regulates the production of angiogenic factors .
mutations in the vhl gene cause vhl syndrome , which is characterized by highly vascularized tumors .
here we report a c.464t&gt;a mutation of the vhl gene in three patients with hemangioblastoma from a chinese family .
this mutation was not reported previously and was absent in the unaffected family members .
the mutation is predicted to cause val to glu substitution at vhl protein residue 155 in a conserved region .
previous biochemical studies demonstrated that residue val-155 was critical for vhl protein binding to chaperonin tric/cct , an essential step for proper vhl protein folding .
our finding of naturally occurring vhl v155e mutation in patients with vhl syndrome supports the functional importance of val-155 residue in vhl protein and illustrates the diversity of vhl gene defects underlying vhl syndrome .
the 2-adrenergic receptor ( 2ar ) mediates the effects of chronic stress in several neoplasms , however , 2ar signaling is impaired by hypoxia in various tissues .
while hypoxia is a common feature significant in the progression of solid tumors , little is known about the effect of hypoxia on 2ar signaling in the tumor microenvironment .
previously , it has been reported that the systemic administration of mesenchymal stem cells ( mscs ) increased the engraftment and metastatic colonization of rat osteosarcoma ( os ) cells .
in the current study , the effect of mscs on the hypoxia-induced desensitization of the 2ar in os cells was investigated .
epinephrine , norepinephrine and isoproterenol increased the cellular proliferation of the rat os cell line cos1nr and rat mscs in a dose-dependent and 2ar antagonist-sensitive manner .
while isoproterenol had significant proliferative effects on mscs under normoxic and hypoxic conditions , cos1nr cells did not respond under hypoxic conditions .
a sensitivity assay for the 2ar revealed that hypoxia impaired the sensitivity of cos1nr cells , whereas hypoxia did not affect mscs .
an immunoassay revealed no significant change in the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 ( hif1 ) in cos1nr cells , whilst an immunoassay demonstrated a 15% increase in mscs following isoproterenol stimulation .
in cos1nr cells co-cultured with mscs under hypoxic conditions , isoproterenol caused a significant increase in proliferation and this effect was inhibited by an anti-interleukin ( il)-6 antibody .
a tumor formation assay in syngeneic rats revealed that the systemic administration of mscs enhances the growth of os and the effect of mscs was inhibited by il-6 neutralization .
in conclusion , mscs are resistant to the hypoxia-induced desensitization to 2ar .
hypoxia caused a siginificant desensitization of the 2ar in cos1nr cells alone , whereas mscs may support tumor progression through cellular interactions .
genomic instability drives tumorigenesis , but how it is initiated in sporadic neoplasias is unknown .
in early preneoplasias , alterations at chromosome fragile sites arise due to dna replication stress .
a frequent , perhaps earliest , genetic alteration in preneoplasias is deletion within the fragile fra3b/fhit locus , leading to loss of fhit protein expression .
because common chromosome fragile sites are exquisitely sensitive to replication stress , it has been proposed that their clonal alterations in cancer cells are due to stress sensitivity rather than to a selective advantage imparted by loss of expression of fragile gene products .
here , we show in normal , transformed , and cancer-derived cell lines that fhit-depletion causes replication stress-induced dna double-strand breaks .
using dna combing , we observed a defect in replication fork progression in fhit-deficient cells that stemmed primarily from fork stalling and collapse .
the likely mechanism for the role of fhit in replication fork progression is through regulation of thymidine kinase 1 expression and thymidine triphosphate pool levels ; notably , restoration of nucleotide balance rescued dna replication defects and suppressed dna breakage in fhit-deficient cells .
depletion of fhit did not activate the dna damage response nor cause cell cycle arrest , allowing continued cell proliferation and ongoing chromosomal instability .
this finding was in accord with in vivo studies , as fhit knockout mouse tissue showed no evidence of cell cycle arrest or senescence yet exhibited numerous somatic dna copy number aberrations at replication stress-sensitive loci .
furthermore , cells established from fhit knockout tissue showed rapid immortalization and selection of dna deletions and amplifications , including amplification of the mdm2 gene , suggesting that fhit loss-induced genome instability facilitates transformation .
we propose that loss of fhit expression in precancerous lesions is the first step in the initiation of genomic instability , linking alterations at common fragile sites to the origin of genome instability .
micrornas ( mirnas ) are considered to be regulators of various biological processes in cancers , including the epithelial to mesenchymal transition ( emt ) , which is a key factor in cancer metastasis .
in this study , we aimed to clarify the potential roles of mir-490-3p in hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) cells .
using real-time quantitative rt-pcr , we discovered that mir-490-3p was up-regulated in hcc tissues and cells compared with the adjacent non-tumor tissues and normal cells .
we also found that overexpression of mir-490-3p led to an increase in cell proliferation , migration , and invasion abilities and that it contributed to emt .
the inhibition of mir-490-3p had the opposite effect on the cells .
we identified ergic3 ( endoplasmic reticulum-golgi intermediate compartment protein 3 ) as a direct target gene for mir-490-3p .
unlike most mirna-mrna interactions , mir-490-3p increased ergic3 mrna and protein levels as well as the intensity of expression of the egfp reporter gene controlled by the 3'-utr of ergic3 mrna .
the up-regulation by mir-490-3p also required the participation of ago2 .
the inhibition of mir-490-3p reduced the expression of ergic3 .
overexpression of ergic3 led to the same effect on hcc cells as mir-490-3p overexpression , including emt .
importantly , silencing ergic3 reversed the cellular responses mediated by mir-490-3p overexpression .
in conclusion , our study indicated for the first time that mir-490-3p functioned like an oncogenic mirna in hcc cells and that the inhibition of mir-490-3p might provide an potential treatment approach for hcc patients .
group vib phospholipase a(2) ( ipla(2) ) is distributed in membranous organelles in which -oxidation occurs , that is , mitochondria and peroxisomes , and is expressed by insulin-secreting pancreatic islet -cells and ins-1 insulinoma cells , which can be injured by inflammatory cytokines , for example , il-1 and ifn- , and by oxidants , for example , streptozotocin ( stz ) or t-butyl-hydroperoxide ( tbhp ) , via processes pertinent to mechanisms of -cell loss in types 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus .
we find that incubating ins-1 cells with il-1 and ifn- , with stz , or with tbhp causes increased expression of ipla(2) mrna and protein .
we prepared ins-1 knockdown ( kd ) cell lines with reduced ipla(2) expression , and they proliferate more slowly than control ins-1 cells and undergo increased membrane peroxidation in response to cytokines or oxidants .
accumulation of oxidized phospholipid molecular species in stz-treated ins-1 cells was demonstrated by lc/ms/ms scanning , and the levels in ipla(2)-kd cells exceeded those in control cells. ipla(2)-kd ins-1 cells also exhibited higher levels of apoptosis than control cells when incubated with stz or with il-1 and ifn- .
these findings suggest that ipla(2) promotes -cell proliferation and that its expression is increased during inflammation or oxidative stress as a mechanism to mitigate membrane injury that may enhance -cell survival .
the functions of rap-1a in oral carcinogenesis are largely unexplored .
in this study , we examined the expression of rap-1a at different malignant stages of oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma ( ocscc ) .
semiquantitative rt-pcr , quantitative rt-pcr , and western blotting were used to evaluate rap-1a mrna and protein expressions , respectively , in paired ocscc patient specimens .
to determine the possible correlation between rap-1a expression and various clinical characteristics , 256 samples from patients with ocscc were evaluated by immunohistochemical staining .
strong rap-1a expression was a significant prognostic marker and predictor of aggressive ocscc .
the overall and disease-specific 5-year survival rates were significantly correlated with strong expression of rap-1a ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
functionally , overexpressed rap-1a could promote oral cancer cell migration and invasion by transwell chambers and wound healing assay .
conversely , the suppression of rap-1a expression using rap-1a-mediated sirna was sufficient to decrease cell motility .
furthermore , our data also illustrated that aurora-a could not only induce mrna and protein expressions of rap-1a for enhancing cancer cell motility but also co-localize and form a complex with rap-1a in the oral cancer cell line .
finally , immunohistochemical staining , indirect immunofluorescence , and western blotting analysis of human aggressive ocscc specimens revealed a significantly positive correlation between rap-1a and aurora-a expression .
taken together , our results suggest that the aurora-a/rap-1a pathway is associated with survival , tumor progression , and metastasis of ocscc patients .
methyleugenol ( meg ) , a constituent of plants used in the human diet , is hepatocarcinogenic in rodents .
in an experiment to elucidate its mode of action in rat liver , male f344 rats were administered meg intragastrically at 3 doses per week for up to 16 weeks in an initiation phase , after which half the rats were fed 500 ppm phenobarbital ( pb ) in the diet to promote liver neoplasia and the other half were maintained on control diet for 24 weeks .
at 8 and 16 week interim terminations , ( 32)p-nucleotide postlabeling assay revealed 3 adducts in livers of all meg groups .
the hepatocellular replicating fractions , measured by proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunohistochemistry , were doubled or more in all meg groups .
hepatocellular altered foci , detected by glutathione s-transferase-placental type (  ) immunohistochemistry , were present beginning with the high dose group at 8 weeks and extending to all meg groups at 16 weeks .
at the end of maintenance/promotion phase , the incidences , multiplicity and size of foci was similar between control and low dose groups , while those of mid and high dose groups were increased .
hepatocellular adenomas occurred in the mid and high dose groups , attaining higher multiplicity and size with pb .
thus , meg had rapid initiating activity , reflecting the formation of dna adducts and possibly cell proliferation .
the potential of cytologically reconstructed barley line d-2946 to cope with the major lesions that hamper genome integrity , namely dna single- and double-strand breaks was investigated .
strand breaks induced by -rays and li ions were assessed by neutral and alkaline comet assay .
repair capacity after bleomycin treatment was evaluated by agarose gel electrophoresis under neutral and alkaline conditions .
frequencies of radiation-induced chromosome aberrations were also determined .
results indicate that radiation-mediated constitutive rearrangement of the chromosome complement has led to a substantial modulation of the sensitivity of barley genome towards dna strand breaks , produced by ionising radiation , li ion implantation and bleomycin in an agent-specific manner , as well as of the clastogenic response to -rays .
based on these findings , reconstructed barley karyotype d-2946 can be considered a candidate radio-sensitive line with reduced ability to maintain genome integrity with respect to both dna and chromosomal damage .
tumor-infiltrating immune cells can promote chemoresistance and metastatic spread in aggressive tumors .
consequently , the type and quality of immune responses present in the neoplastic stroma are highly predictive of patient outcome in several cancer types .
in addition to host immune responses , intrinsic tumor cell activities that mimic stem cell properties have been linked to chemoresistance , metastatic dissemination and the induction of immune suppression .
cancer stem cells are far from a static cell population ; rather , their presence appears to be controlled by highly dynamic processes that are dependent on cues from the tumor stroma .
however , the impact immune responses have on tumor stem cell differentiation or expansion is not well understood .
in this study , we demonstrate that targeting tumor-infiltrating macrophages and inflammatory monocytes by inhibiting either the myeloid cell receptors csf1r or ccr2 decreases the number of tumor-initiating cells in pancreatic tumors .
targeting ccr2 or csf1r improves chemotherapeutic efficacy , inhibits metastasis and increases antitumor t-cell responses .
tumor-educated macrophages also directly enhanced the tumor-initiating capacity of pancreatic tumor cells by activating the transcription factor stat3 , thereby facilitating macrophage-mediated suppression of cd8+ t lymphocytes .
together , our findings show how targeting tumor-infiltrating macrophages can effectively overcome therapeutic resistance mediated by tumor-initiating cells .
the glutathione peroxidases , a family of selenocysteine-containing redox enzymes , play pivotal roles in balancing the signaling , immunomodulatory , and deleterious effects of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) .
the glutathione peroxidase gpx3 is the only extracellular member of this family , suggesting it may defend cells against ros in the extracellular environment .
notably , gpx3 hypermethylation and underexpression occur commonly in prostate , gastric , cervical , thyroid , and colon cancers .
we took a reverse genetics approach to investigate whether gpx3 would augment inflammatory colonic tumorigenesis , a process characterized by oxidative stress and inflammation , comparing gpx3(-/-) mice in an established two-stage model of inflammatory colon carcinogenesis .
gpx3-deficient mice exhibited an increased tumor number , though not size , along with a higher degree of dysplasia .
in addition , they exhibited increased inflammation with redistribution toward protumorigenic m2 macrophage subsets , increased proliferation , hyperactive wnt signaling , and increased dna damage .
to determine the impact of acute gene loss in an established colon cancer line , we silenced gpx3 in human caco2 cells , resulting in increased ros production , dna damage and apoptosis in response to oxidative stress , combined with decreased contact-independent growth .
taken together , our results suggested an immunomodulatory role for gpx3 that limits the development of colitis-associated carcinoma .
low-dose cyclophosphamide ( cp ) therapy induces immunogenic tumor cell death and decreases regulatory t cell ( treg ) numbers in mice with transplantable tumors .
using the ret transgenic murine melanoma model that resembles human melanoma , we detected no beneficial antitumor effects with such treatment , despite a decrease in tregs .
on the contrary , low-dose cp enhanced the production of chronic inflammatory mediators in melanoma lesions associated with increased accumulation of gr1(+)cd11b(+) myeloid-derived suppressor cells ( mdscs ) , which exhibit elevated suppressive activity and nitric oxide ( no ) production as well as inhibition of t-cell proliferation .
moreover , the frequencies of cd8(+) t cells in the tumors and their ability to produce perforin were decreased .
to study whether the observed cp-induced mdsc expansion and activation also occurs under chronic inflammatory tumor-free conditions , mice exhibiting chronic inflammation were treated with cp .
similar to tumor-bearing mice , cp-treated inflamed mice displayed elevated levels of mdscs with enhanced production of no , reactive oxygen species , and a suppressed in vivo natural killer ( nk ) cell cytotoxic activity indicating cp effects on the host immune system independent of the tumor .
we suggest that melanoma therapy with low-dose cp could be efficient only when combined with the neutralization of mdsc immunosuppressive function and chronic inflammatory microenvironment.journal of investigative dermatology advance online publication , 6 december 2012 ; doi:10.1038/jid.2012.444 .
background young age is a favorable prognostic factor for patients with glioblastoma multiforme ( gbm ) .
we reviewed the outcomes and molecular tumor characteristics of adolescent and young adult patients with gbm treated in 2 austrian centers .
patients and methods data on patients with histologically proven primary gbm diagnosed from 18 through 40 years of age were retrospectively analyzed .
all patients were treated with standard first-line therapy .
the primary end points were overall survival ( os ) and time to progression ( ttp ) .
idh1-r132h mutation status was analyzed using immunohistochemistry , and mgmt promoter methylation was assessed using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction .
results we included 70 patients ( 36 men and 34 women ) with a median age of 33 years .
idh1-r132h mutations were detected in 22 ( 39.3% ) of 56 cases and mgmt promoter methylation in 33 ( 61.1% ) of 54 cases with available tissue samples .
in patients with wild-type idh , median ttp was 8.2 months and median os was 24 months , compared with 18 months and 44 months , respectively , observed in patients with mutated idh .
neither idh1 nor mgmt status showed a statistically significant association with ttp or os .
of note , the social and economical situation of the young patients with gbm was alarming , because only 17% succeeded in staying employed after receiving the diagnosis .
conclusions we found a high frequency of idh1 mutations and mgmt promoter methylation among young adult patients with primary gbm that may contribute to the generally favorable outcome associated with young age .
the social and economic coverage of patients with glioma remains an unsolved socio-ethical problem .
kinins and their receptors have been recently implicated in cancer .
using functional and molecular approaches , we investigated the relevance of kinin b(1) and b(2) receptors in bladder cancer .
functional studies were conducted using bladder cancer cell lines , and human biopsies were employed for molecular studies .
both b(1) des-arg(9)-bk and b(2) bk receptor agonists stimulated the proliferation of grade 3-derived t24 bladder cancer cells .
furthermore , treatment with b(1) and b(2) receptor antagonists ( ssr240612 and hoe140 ) markedly inhibited the proliferation of t24 cells .
only higher concentrations of bk increased the proliferation of the grade 1 bladder cancer cell line rt4 , while des-arg(9)-bk completely failed to induce its proliferation .
real-time pcr revealed that the mrna expression of kinin receptors , particularly b(1) receptors , was increased in t24 cells relative to rt4 cells .
data from bladder cancer human biopsies revealed that b(1) receptor expression was increased in all tumor samples and under conditions of chronic inflammation .
we also show novel evidence demonstrating that the pharmacological inhibition of pi3k ( phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ) with as252424 , concentration-dependently reduced t24 cell proliferation induced by bk or des-arg(9)-bk .
finally , the incubation of t24 cells with kinin agonists led to a marked activation of the pi3k/akt and erk 1/2 signaling pathways , whereas p38 map kinase remained unaffected .
kinin receptors , especially b(1) receptors , appear to be implicated in bladder cancer progression .
it is tempting to suggest that selective kinin antagonists might represent potential alternative therapies for bladder cancer .
osteosarcoma is a high-grade malignant bone tumor that manifests ingravescent clinical behavior .
the intrinsic events that confer malignant properties on osteosarcoma cells have remained unclear , however .
we previously established two lines of mouse osteosarcoma cells : ax cells , which are able to form tumors in syngeneic mice , and axt cells , which were derived from such tumors and acquired an increased tumorigenic capacity during tumor development .
we have now identified igf2 mrna-binding protein3 ( imp3 ) as a key molecule responsible for this increased tumorigenicity of axt cells in vivo .
imp3 is consistently up-regulated in tumors formed by ax cells , and its expression in these cells was found to confer malignant properties such as anchorage-independent growth , loss of contact inhibition , and escape from anoikis in vitro .
the expression level of imp3 also appeared directly related to tumorigenic ability in vivo which is the critical determination for tumor-initiating cells .
the effect of imp3 on tumorigenicity of osteosarcoma cells did not appear to be mediated through igf2-dependent mechanism .
our results implicate imp3 as a key regulator of stem-like tumorigenic characteristics in osteosarcoma cells and as a potential therapeutic target for this malignancy .
oxaliplatin is included in a number of effective combination regimens used as first and subsequent lines of therapy for metastatic colorectal cancer .
accumulating evidence indicates that autophagy plays a significant role in response to cancer therapy .
however , the role of autophagy in oxaliplatin-induced cell death remains to be clarified .
in this study , we showed that oxaliplatin induced cell death and autophagy in caco-2 colorectal cancer cells .
the suppression of autophagy using either pharmacologic inhibitors ( 3-methyladenine , bafilomycin a1 ) or rna interference in essential autophagy genes ( atg5 or beclin1 ) enhanced the cell death and reactive oxygen species ( ros ) production induced by oxaliplatin in caco-2 cells .
blocking oxaliplatin-induced ros production by using ros scavengers ( nac or tiron ) decreased autophagy .
furthermore , numerous dilated endoplasmic reticula ( er ) were present in oxaliplatin-treated caco-2 cells , and blocking er stress by rna interference against candidate of metastasis-1 ( p8 ) and c/ebp-homologous protein ( chop ) decreased autophagy and ros production .
taken together , these data indicate that oxaliplatin activates autophagy as a cytoprotective response via er stress and ros in human colorectal cancer cells .
lymphocytes are a key component of the immune system and their differentiation and function are directly influenced by cancer .
we examined peripheral blood lymphocyte ( pbl ) gene expression as a biomarker of illness and treatment effect using the affymetrix human gene st1 platform in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma ( mrcc ) who received combined treatment with il-2 , interferon-?-2a and dendritic cell vaccine .
we examined gene expression , cytokine levels in patient serum and lymphocyte subsets as determined by flow cytometry ( fcm ) .
pre-treatment pbls from patients with mrcc exhibit a gene expression profile and serum cytokine profile consistent with inflammation and proliferation not found in healthy donors ( hd ) .
pbl gene expression from patients with mrcc showed increased mrna of genes involved with t-cell and t(reg)-cell activation pathways , which was also reflected in lymphocyte subset distribution .
overall , pbl gene expression post-treatment ( post ) was not significantly different than pre-treatment ( pre ) .
nevertheless , treatment related changes in gene expression ( post-treatment minus pre-treatment ) revealed an increased expression of t-cell and b-cell receptor signaling pathways in responding ( r ) patients compared to non-responding ( nr ) patients .
in addition , we observed down-regulation of t(reg)-cell pathways post-treatment in r vs. nr patients .
while exploratory in nature , this study supports the hypothesis that enhanced inflammatory cytotoxic pathways coupled with blunting of the regulatory pathways is necessary for effective anti-cancer activity associated with immune therapy .
this type of analysis can potentially identify additional immune therapeutic targets in patients with mrcc .
metastasis , commonly to the lung , is the major cause of mortality from testicular cancer .
the aim of the present study was to examine the effect of a novel nutrient mixture ( nm ) containing ascorbic acid , amino acids and green tea extract on the inhibition of melanoma growth and metastasis using a model of intratesticular inoculation of b16fo cells into nude mice .
male athymic mice ( n=12 ) , 10-12 weeks of age , were inoculated with 510(5) b16fo melanoma cells in 100 l of pbs into the right testis , while the left testis was left untreated .
following inoculation , the mice were randomly divided into two groups .
the control group ( n=6 ) was fed a regular mouse chow diet and the nm 1% group ( n=6 ) the same diet , but supplemented with 1% nm .
four weeks later the mice were sacrificed and the abdominal cavity was opened .
mice in the control group exhibited extensive metastasis in the peritoneal cavity and severely enlarged right testes and necrotic seminiferous tubules .
by contrast , in the nm 1% fed group there was no evidence of peritoneal metastasis in 50% of the animals and mild metastasis in the remaining 50% .
the right testes were enlarged and seminiferous tubules in the area of invasion showed evidence of degeneration .
no metastasis to the liver , kidney or spleen were evident in either group .
however , severe lung metastasis was observed in 2 of 6 mice in the control group and mild metastasis in 2 of 6 mice in the nm 1% group .
in conclusion , these results confirm earlier studies and verify the anti-metastatic potential of nm .
the prediction of tumor behavior for patients with oral carcinomas remains a challenge for clinicians .
the presence of lymph node metastasis is the most important prognostic factor but it is limited in predicting local relapse or survival .
this highlights the need for identifying biomarkers that may effectively contribute to prediction of recurrence and tumor spread .
in this study , we used one- and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis , mass spectrometry and immunodetection methods to analyze protein expression in oral squamous cell carcinomas .
using a refinement for classifying oral carcinomas in regard to prognosis , we analyzed small but lymph node metastasis-positive versus large , lymph node metastasis-negative tumors in order to contribute to the molecular characterization of subgroups with risk of dissemination .
specific protein patterns favoring metastasis were observed in the " more-aggressive " group defined by the present study .
this group displayed upregulation of proteins involved in migration , adhesion , angiogenesis , cell cycle regulation , anti-apoptosis and epithelial to mesenchymal transition , whereas the " less-aggressive " group was engaged in keratinocyte differentiation , epidermis development , inflammation and immune response .
besides the identification of several proteins not yet described as deregulated in oral carcinomas , the present study demonstrated for the first time the role of cofilin-1 in modulating cell invasion in oral carcinomas .
topoisomerase 1 ( top1)-dna cleavage complexes induced by camptothecin ( cpt ) cause dna strand breaks during dna replication or transcription .
although the cellular responses to replication-mediated dna double-strand breaks have been well studied , the responses to transcription-mediated dna strand breaks have not .
here , we show that poly ( adp-ribose ) polymerase ( parp ) and cockayne syndrome group b protein ( csb ) modulate the cpt-induced formation of discrete p53-binding protein 1 ( 53bp1 ) nuclear foci at sites of transcription-mediated dna strand breaks .
inhibition of parp activity enhanced the formation of these foci , while knockdown of essential components of the base excision repair ( ber ) pathway did not .
these findings suggest that parp suppresses transcription-mediated 53bp1 foci formation , but that this does not occur through the ber pathway .
in addition , knockdown of csb , one of the key factors of transcription-coupled repair , slowed the kinetics of 53bp1 foci formation .
these data suggest that parp and csb modulate the formation of 53bp1 foci during the processing of transcription-mediated dna strand breaks .
autophagy is an evolutionarily conserved , multi-step lysosomal degradation process in which a cell degrades its own long-lived proteins and damaged organelles .
ataxia telangiectasia mutated ( atm ) has recently been shown to upregulate the process of autophagy .
previous studies showed that certain micrornas , including mir-18a , potentially regulate atm in cancer cells .
however , the mechanisms behind the modulation of atm by mir-18a remain to be elucidated in colon cancer cells .
in the present study , we explored the impact of mir-18a on the autophagy process and atm expression in hct116 colon cancer cells .
to determine whether a preliminary link exists between autophagy and mir-18a , hct116 cells were irradiated and quantitative ( q ) pcr was performed to measure mir-18a expression .
hct116 cells were transfected with an mir-18a mimic to study its impact on indicators of autophagy .
western blotting and luciferase assays were implemented to explore the impact of mir-18a on atm gene expression in hct116 cells .
the results showed that mir-18a expression was strongly stimulated by radiation .
ectopic overexpression of mir-18a in hct116 cell lines potently enhanced autophagy and ionizing radiation-induced autophagy .
moreover , mir-18a overexpression led to the upregulation of atm expression and suppression of mtorc1 activity .
results of the present study pertaining to the role of mir-18a in regulating autophagy and atm gene expression in colon cancer cells revealed a novel function for mir-18a in a critical cellular event and on a crucial gene with significant impacts in cancer development , progression , treatment and in other diseases .
scope glyceollins are a novel class of soybean phytoalexins with potential cancer-preventive and antiestrogenic effects .
the angiogenic cascade during tumor development consists of the release of angiogenic factors and binding of angiogenic factors to receptors on endothelial cells to activate downstream signaling pathways .
however , the potential medicinal value of glyceollins , especially in antiangiogenesis , remains unexplored .
methods and results here , we investigated the antiangiogenic activity of glyceollins and their underlying mechanisms .
glyceollins inhibited vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) or basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) induced in vitro angiogenic activity .
glyceollins inhibited vegf receptor-2 or fgf receptor-1 activity and their downstream signaling pathways such as extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 , c-jun n-terminal kinase , as well as p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase and focal adhesion kinase induced by vegf or bfgf .
glyceollins significantly suppressed vegf receptor-2 kinase activity assayed by the elisa .
glyceollins significantly attenuated in vivo and ex vivo microvessel development in a dose-dependent manner and tumor growth by suppressing microvessel density in lewis lung carcinoma ( llc ) mouse xenograft .
conclusion thus , glyceollins , elicited ingredients of soy source , target the signaling pathways mediated by vegf or bfgf , providing new perspectives into potential therapeutics for preventing and treating hypervascularized diseases including cancer .
the tumor suppressors lats1 and lats2 are mediators of the hippo pathway that regulates tissue growth and proliferation .
their n-terminal non-kinase regions are distinct except for lats conserved domains 1 and 2 ( lcd1 and lcd2 ) , which may be important for lats1/2-specific functions .
lats1 knockout mice were generated by disrupting the n-terminal region containing lcd1 ( lats1(n/n) ) .
some lats1(n/n) mice were born safely and grew normally .
however , mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( mefs ) from lats1(n/n) mice displayed mitotic defects , centrosomal overduplication , chromosomal misalignment , multipolar spindle formation , chromosomal bridging and cytokinesis failure .
they also showed anchorage-independent growth and continued cell cycles and cell growth , bypassing cell-cell contact inhibition similar to tumor cells .
lats1(n/n) mefs produced tumors in nude mice after subcutaneous injection , although the tumor growth rate was much slower than that of ordinary cancer cells .
yap , a key transcriptional coactivator of the hippo pathway , was overexpressed and stably retained in lats1(n/n) mefs in a cell density independent manner , and lats2 mrna expression was downregulated .
in conclusion , n-terminally truncated lats1 induced lats2 downregulation and yap protein accumulation , leading to chromosomal instability and tumorigenesis .
bigelovin is a sesquiterpene lactone isolated from the plant inula helianthus-aquatica which was traditionally used in cancer treatment in yunnan , china .
the potent apoptotic activities of bigelovin in human leukemia u937 cells were shown in our previous study .
the present study investigated the anti-angiogenic and immunomodulatory effects of bigelovin using transgenic zebrafish tg(fli1a:egfp)y1 with fluorescent blood vessels and human peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmcs ) , respectively .
furthermore , the inhibitory activities of bigelovin on the human endothelial cell adhesion molecules ( cams ) were also examined .
our results showed that the growth of subintestinal vessels of the bigelovin-treated zebrafish embryos was significantly inhibited and the gene expressions in angiogenesis signaling pathways ( e.g .
ang2 and tie2 ) of the zebrafish were down-regulated after bigelovin treatment .
besides , the proliferation and th1 cytokines productions ( e.g .
ifn- , il-2 and il-12 ) were suppressed in bigelovin-treated pbmcs .
on the other hand , bigelovin was shown to significantly inhibit the human monocyte adhesion to human endothelial cells and the gene expressions of inflammation-related cams ( e.g .
icam-1 , vcam-1 and e-selectin ) were significantly down-regulated in bigelovin-treated human endothelial cells .
in summary , our data provide the first evidence that bigelovin possesses anti-angiogenic and immunomodulatory activities , suggesting bigelovin may exert multi-target functions against cancer in animal models .
adipose tissue growth and development are thought to be associated with angiogenesis and extracellular matrix remodeling .
because ginseng has been shown to inhibit angiogenesis and matrix metalloproteinase ( mmp ) activity , we hypothesized that adipose tissue growth and obesity can be regulated by korean ginseng ( panax ginseng c.a. meyer ) .
wild-type c57bl/6j mice were fed for 8 weeks with a low fat diet , a high fat diet ( hfd ) , or hfd supplemented with 0.5% or 5% korean red ginseng extract .
we measured body weight , adipose tissue mass , food intake , mmp activity , and the expression of genes involved in angiogenesis and mmps .
administering ginseng to hfd-induced obese mice produced reductions in body weight and adipose tissue mass compared with untreated counterparts .
ginseng treatment decreased blood vessel density and mmp activity in adipose tissues .
ginseng also reduced mrna levels of angiogenic factors ( e.g. , vegf-a and fgf-2 ) and mmps ( e.g. , mmp-2 and mmp-9 ) , whereas it increased mrna levels of angiogenic inhibitors ( e.g. , tsp-1 , timp-1 , and timp-2 ) in adipose tissues .
these results demonstrate that ginseng effectively reduces adipose tissue mass and prevents obesity in diet-induced obese mice and that this process may be mediated in part through the anti-angiogenic actions of ginseng .
it is well known that erbb2 , a receptor tyrosine kinase , localizes to the plasma membrane .
here we describe a novel observation that erbb2 also localizes in mitochondria of cancer cells and patient samples .
we found that erbb2 translocates into mitochondria through association with mthsp70 .
additionally , mitochondrial erbb2 ( mterbb2 ) negatively regulates mitochondrial respiratory functions .
oxygen consumption and activities of complexes of the mitochondrial electron transport chain were decreased in mterbb2-overexpressing cells .
mitochondrial membrane potential and cellular atp levels were also decreased .
in contrast , mterbb2 enhanced cellular glycolysis .
the translocation of erbb2 and its impact on mitochondrial function are kinase dependent .
interestingly , cancer cells with higher levels of mterbb2 were more resistant to the erbb2-targeting antibody trastuzumab .
our study provides a novel perspective on the metabolic regulatory function of erbb2 and reveals that mterbb2 has an important role in the regulation of cellular metabolism and cancer cell resistance to therapeutics .
vascular integrity is fundamental to the formation of mature blood vessels and depends on a functional , quiescent endothelial monolayer .
however , how endothelial cells enter and maintain quiescence in the presence of angiogenic factors is still poorly understood .
here we identify the fibroblast growth factor ( fgf ) antagonist sprouty2 ( spry2 ) as a key player in mediating endothelial quiescence and barrier integrity in mouse aortic endothelial cells ( maecs ) : spry2 knockout maecs show spindle-like shapes and are incapable of forming a functional , impermeable endothelial monolayer in the presence of fgf2 .
whereas dense wild type cells exhibit contact inhibition and stop to proliferate , spry2 knockout maecs remain responsive to fgf2 and continue to proliferate even at high cell densities .
importantly , the anti-proliferative effect of spry2 is absent in sparsely plated cells .
this cell density-dependent spry2 function correlates with highly increased spry2 expression in confluent wild type maecs .
spry2 protein expression is barely detectable in single cells but steadily increases in cells growing to high cell densities , with hypoxia being one contributing factor .
at confluence , spry2 expression correlates with intact cell-cell contacts , whereas disruption of cell-cell contacts by egta , tnf and thrombin decreases spry2 protein expression .
in confluent cells , high spry2 levels correlate with decreased extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 ( erk1/2 ) phosphorylation .
in contrast , dense spry2 knockout maecs exhibit enhanced signaling by erk1/2 .
moreover , inhibiting erk1/2 activity in spry2 knockout cells restores wild type cobblestone monolayer morphology .
this study thus reveals a novel spry2 function , which mediates endothelial contact inhibition and barrier integrity .
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( pdac ) is one of the most aggressive human neoplasms with extremely poor prognosis and a low survival rate .
immunosuppressive cell populations , e.g. regulatory t cells ( treg ) , appear to be important in pdac , contributing to patient's poor prognosis .
therefore , we investigated the pdac microenvironment with a focus on conventional and regulatory t cells in view of their potential therapeutic importance .
we found that tumors from the murine panc02 orthotopic model of pdac were infiltrated with high numbers of treg .
remarkably , these cells exhibited the effector/memory phenotype , suggesting their enhanced suppressive activity and higher proliferation capacity .
although we observed a steady increase in transforming growth factor- ( tgf- ) levels in the tumors , treatment with a specific inhibitor of tgf- receptor i kinase failed to abrogate treg accumulation .
a ccr4 antagonist did not affect treg percentage in the tumor either .
however , intense treg cell division in the tumor microenvironment was demonstrated , suggesting local proliferation as a major mechanism of treg accumulation in pdac .
notably , this accumulation was reduced by low-dose gemcitabine administration , resulting in a modestly increased survival of pdac mice .
our results provide an insight into mechanisms of immunosuppression in pdac , suggesting an important role for proliferative expansion of effector/memory treg .
low-dose gemcitabine therapy selectively depletes treg , providing a basis for new modalities of pdac therapy .
liver resection is now widely accepted as a potentially curative treatment for colorectal liver metastasis .
however , the efficacy of surgical resection for gastric cancer liver metastasis(glm)remains unclear .
based on our 18-year experience with 64 patients who underwent curative hepatectomy for glm , we discuss the indication and efficacy of surgical resection for glm .
from january 1993 to january 2011 , 73 patients underwent hepatectomy for glm in the department of gastroenterological surgery , cancer institute ariake hospital(japanese foundation for cancer research ) , japan .
the actuarial1 - , 3- , and 5-year overall survival rates and 1- , 3- , and 5-year recurrence-free survival rates of those 64 patients who achieved curative resections were 84 , 50 , and 37% , and 42 , 27 , and 27% , respectively .
by multivariate analysis , serosal invasion of the primary gastric cancer and larger hepatic tumor(&gt;5 cm in diameter)were found to be independent indicators of poor prognosis .
based on the multivariate analysis results , all patients were divided into three groups no poor prognostic factor(n=38) , one poor prognostic factor(n=24) , and two poor prognostic factors(n=2) .
the actuarial overall survival rates of each group were 63 , 36 , and 0% at 3 years , and 53 , 15 , and 0% at 5 years .
glm patients having hepatic tumors with the maximum diameter of &lt;5 cm , and without serosalinvasion of the primary gastric cancer , are the best candidates for hepatectomy .
background treatment of head and neck cancer with radiation often results in damage to surrounding normal tissues such as salivary glands .
permanent loss of function in the salivary glands often leads patients to discontinue treatment due to incapacitating side effects .
it has previously been shown that igf-1 suppresses radiation-induced apoptosis and enhances g2/m arrest leading to preservation of salivary gland function .
in an effort to recapitulate the effects of igf-1 , as well as increase the likelihood of translating these findings to the clinic , the small molecule therapeutic roscovitine , is being tested .
roscovitine is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor that acts to transiently inhibit cell cycle progression and allow for dna repair in damaged tissues .
methodology/principal findings treatment with roscovitine prior to irradiation induced a significant increase in the percentage of cells in the g(2)/m phase , as demonstrated by flow cytometry .
in contrast , mice treated with radiation exhibit no differences in the percentage of cells in g(2)/m when compared to unirradiated controls .
similar to previous studies utilizing igf-1 , pretreatment with roscovitine leads to a significant up-regulation of p21 expression and a significant decrease in the number of pcna positive cells .
radiation treatment leads to a significant increase in activated caspase-3 positive salivary acinar cells , which is suppressed by pretreatment with roscovitine .
administration of roscovitine prior to targeted head and neck irradiation preserves normal tissue function in mouse parotid salivary glands , both acutely and chronically , as measured by salivary output .
conclusions/significance these studies suggest that induction of transient g(2)/m cell cycle arrest by roscovitine allows for suppression of apoptosis , thus preserving normal salivary function following targeted head and neck irradiation .
this could have an important clinical impact by preventing the negative side effects of radiation therapy in surrounding normal tissues .
tp53 mutations compromising p53 transcriptional function occur in more than 50% of human cancers , including pancreatic adenocarcinoma , and render cancer cells more resistant to conventional therapy .
in the last few years , many efforts have been addressed to identify p53-reactivating molecules able to restore the wild-type transcriptionally competent conformation of the mutated proteins .
here , we show that two of these compounds , cp-31398 and rita , induce cell growth inhibition , apoptosis , and autophagy by activating p53/dna binding and p53 phosphorylation ( ser15 ) , without affecting the total p53 amount .
these effects occur in both wild-type and mutant p53 pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell lines , whereas they are much less pronounced in normal human primary fibroblasts .
furthermore , cp-31398 and rita regulate the axis sesn1-2/ampk/mtor by inducing ampk phosphorylation on thr172 , which has a crucial role in the autophagic response .
the protective role of autophagy in cell growth inhibition by cp-31398 and rita is supported by the finding that the ampk inhibitor compound c or the autophagy inhibitors chloroquine or 3-methyladenine sensitize both pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell lines to the apoptotic response induced by p53-reactivating molecules .
our results demonstrate for the first time a survival role for autophagy induced by p53-reactivating molecules , supporting the development of an anti-cancer therapy based on autophagy inhibition associated to p53 activation .
heparanase is a mammalian endoglycosidase that degrades heparan sulfate at the cell surface and in the extracellular matrix .
the expression of heparanase was detected in a wide variety of human malignant tumors and closely associated with tumor invasion , metastasis , and angiogenesis .
however , the specific roles of heparanase and its mechanisms of regulating the malignant potential of non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) cells still remain unclear .
in the present study , the expression of heparanase was down-regulated in nsclc cell line by antisense oligodeoxynucleotide .
results showed that down-regulation of heparanase led to significant inhibition of invasive and proliferative potentials of a549 cells in vitro and in vivo .
further research demonstrated that down-regulation of heparanase significantly inhibited the angiogenic potential of a549 cells , which might be the mechanism responsible for the inhibition of a549 cell proliferation in balb/c nude mice in vivo .
these findings demonstrate that heparanase plays essential roles in regulating the invasion , proliferation , and angiogenesis of a549 cells .
the role of regulatory t cells ( t(regs) ) in human colon cancer ( cc ) remains controversial : high densities of tumor-infiltrating t(regs) can correlate with better or worse clinical outcomes depending on the study .
in mouse models of cancer , t(regs) have been reported to suppress inflammation and protect the host , suppress t cells and protect the tumor , or even have direct cancer-promoting attributes .
these different effects may result from the presence of different t(reg) subsets .
we report the preferential expansion of a t(reg) subset in human cc with potent t cell-suppressive , but compromised anti-inflammatory , properties ; these cells are distinguished from t(regs) present in healthy donors by their coexpression of foxp3 and rort .
t(regs) with similar attributes were found to be expanded in mouse models of hereditary polyposis .
indeed , ablation of the rort gene in foxp3(+) cells in polyp-prone mice stabilized t(reg) anti-inflammatory functions , suppressed inflammation , improved polyp-specific immune surveillance , and severely attenuated polyposis .
ablation of interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) , il-23 , il-17 , or tumor necrosis factor- in polyp-prone mice reduced polyp number but not to the same extent as loss of rort .
surprisingly , loss of il-17a had a dual effect : il-17a-deficient mice had fewer polyps but continued to have rort(+) t(regs) and developed invasive cancer .
thus , we conclude that rort has a central role in determining the balance between protective and pathogenic t(regs) in cc and that t(reg) subtype regulates inflammation , potency of immune surveillance , and severity of disease outcome .
uclear factor-b ( nf-b ) and activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) are major transcription factors that have been associated with breast cancer metastasis by inducing matrix metalloproteinase-9 ( mmp-9 ) expression .
in this study , we investigated the inhibitory effects of guggulsterone isomers ( cis or trans ) on 12-o-tetradecanoylpho-bol-13-acetate ( tpa)-induced mmp-9 expression .
cis-guggulsterone inhibited tpa-induced mmp expression by blocking ib kinase ( ikk)/nf-b signaling , whereas trans-guggulsterone blocked mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk)/ap-1 signaling .
cis-guggulsterone was more potent than trans-guggulsterone in the inhibition of tpa-induced mmp-9 expression and invasion of mcf-7 cells .
furthermore , we found that the combination of these isomers exerted an additive effect on the inhibition of mcf-7 cell invasion .
these results suggest that guggulsterone isomers downregulate mmp-9 expression and tumor cell invasion through the isomer-specific suppression of ikk/nf-b and mapk/ap-1 activation .
in addition , the suppression of mmp-9 expression correlated well with the inhibition of cell invasion .
calcium ( ca(2+) ) signals are involved in important checkpoints in cell death pathways and promote both apoptosis and autophagy .
however , the relationship between autophagy and apoptosis in response to ca(2+) level elevation is poorly understood .
here , we provided evidence that the influx of extracellular ca(2+) triggered by trichokonin vi ( tk vi ) , an antimicrobial peptide , induced calpain-dependent apoptosis and autophagy in hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) cells .
remarkably , tk vi preferentially induced apoptosis that was associated with calpain-mediated bax and atg5 cleavage , which resulted in the collapse of the mitochondrial membrane potential and cytochrome c release .
interestingly , truncated , but not full-length atg5 , associated with bcl-xl and promoted the intrinsic pathway .
moreover , tk vi treatment induced reactive oxygen species ( ros ) accumulation , an effect in which bak might play a major role .
this accumulation of ros resulted in the subsequent disposal of damaged mitochondria within autophagosomes via atg5-mediated and mitochondria-selective autophagy .
both the inhibition of calpain activity and bax deficiency activated a switch that promoted an enhancement of autophagy .
the inhibition of both apoptosis and autophagy significantly attenuated the tk vi cytotoxicity , indicating that the two processes had stimulatory effects during tk vi-meditated cell death .
these results suggested that calpain , bak and atg5 were molecular links between autophagy and apoptosis and revealed novel aspects of the crosstalk between these two processes .
the potential of tk vi is proposed as a promising anticancer agent for its well-characterized activity of ca(2+) agonist and as a possible novel therapeutic strategy that acts on cancer cell mitochondria .
integrin v3 plays a role in insulin-like growth factor 1 ( igf1 ) signaling ( integrin-igf1 receptor ( igf1r ) cross-talk ) in non-transformed cells in anchorage-dependent conditions .
we reported previously that igf1 directly binds to v3 and induces v3-igf1-igf1r ternary complex formation in these conditions .
the integrin-binding defective igf1 mutant ( r36e/r37e ) is defective in inducing ternary complex formation and igf signaling , whereas it still binds to igf1r .
we studied if igf1 can induce signaling in anchorage-independent conditions in transformed chinese hamster ovary cells that express v3 ( 3-cho ) cells .
here we describe that igf1 signals were more clearly detectable in anchorage-independent conditions ( polyhema-coated plates ) than in anchorage-dependent conditions .
this suggests that igf signaling is masked by signals from cell-matrix interaction in anchorage-dependent conditions .
igf signaling required v3 expression , and r36e/r37e was defective in inducing signals in polyhema-coated plates .
these results suggest that v3-igf1 interaction , not v3-extracellular matrix interaction , is essential for igf signaling .
inhibitors of igf1r , src , akt , and erk1/2 did not suppress v3-igf-igf1r ternary complex formation , suggesting that activation of these kinases are not required for ternary complex formation .
also , mutations of the 3 cytoplasmic tail ( y747f and y759f ) that block 3 tyrosine phosphorylation did not affect igf1r phosphorylation or akt activation .
we propose a model in which igf1 binding to igf1r induces recruitment of integrin v3 to the igf-igf1r complex and then 3 and igf1r are phosphorylated .
it is likely that v3 should be together with the igf1-igf1r complex for triggering igf signaling .
the arf locus is frequently inactivated in human cancer .
the oncosuppressor arf has indeed been described as a general sensor for different situation of cellular stress .
we have previously demonstrated that arf deficiency severely impairs inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo , establishing a role for arf in the regulation of innate immunity .
the aim of the present work was to get further insights into the immune functions of arf and to evaluate its possible contribution to the polarization of macrophages toward the m1 or m2 phenotype .
our results demonstrate that resting arf(-/-) macrophages express high levels of ym1 and fizz-1 , two typical markers of alternatively-activated macrophages ( m2 ) .
additionally , arf(-/-) peritoneal macrophages showed an impaired response to lipopolysaccharide ( a classical inducer of m1 polaryzation ) and a reduced production of pro-inflammatory cytokines/chemokines .
moreover , upon stimulation with interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) , an inducer of the m2 phenotype , well established m2 markers such as fizz-1 , ym1 and arginase-1 were upregulated in arf(-/-) as compared with wild type macrophages .
accordingly , the cytokine and chemokine profile associated with the m2 phenotype was significantly overexpressed in arf(-/-) macrophages responding to il-4 .
in addition , multiple pro-angiogenic factors such as vegf and mmp-9 were also increased .
in summary , these results indicate that arf contributes to the polarization and functional plasticity of macrophages .
abstract : purposeautophagy has attracted attentions as a novel mechanism for tumor development .
in this study human ovarian carcinoma cell line skov3 and multidrug-resistant phenotype skvcr cells were used and the roles of autophagy in radiation-induced cell death were analyzed.methods and materialscell viability was examined by colony formation and cell counting kit-8 ( cck-8 ) assay , 3ma and zvad were used to block autophagy and apoptosis , respectively .
quantitative real-time pcr was used to detect mrna level and western blot was used to detect protein expression , monodansylcadaverine ( mdc ) staining and flow cytometery were used for autophagy , apoptosis and cell cycle dynamics , respectively .
results : ( 1 ) the radiosensitivity exhibited differently in skov3 and skvcr cells ( skov3 : d0=3.37 , skvcr : d0= 4.18 ) ; compared with skov3 the constitutive expression of maplc3 in skvcr was higher , but no change of caspase-3 and cleaved caspase-3 .
( 2 ) the ionizing radiation ( ir)- induced apoptosis and autophagy were significant in both cells ( p&lt;0.05 ) ; inhibition of apoptosis with zvad showed no impact on survival of skov3 and skvcr cells after radiation , while inhibition of autophagy significantly decreased viability in skvcr cells , for skvo3 cells only low level of radiation ( 2 gy and 4 gy ) could decrease the viability(p&lt;0.05) .
( 3 ) zvad inhibited apoptosis and autophagy in both cells , 3ma inhibit apoptosis in skov3 , and promote apoptosis in skvcr , together with inhibition of autophagy .
( 4 ) g2/m arrest was induced by radiation in both cells ; the accumulation of g2/m was more significant in skov3 , 3ma attenuated the radiation-induced s phase delay in skvcr .
conclusion : ir-induced autophagy provides a self-protective mechanism against radiotherapy in skvcr cells , the use of autophagy inhibitor , 3ma , increases the killing effects of radiation by inhibiting autophagy and radiation- induced s phase delay , also by the increase of apoptosis , which suggests a better therapeutic strategy in drug- resistant skvcr ovarian cancer cells .
in normal human cells , oncogene-induced senescence ( ois ) depends on induction of dna damage response .
oxidative stress and hyperreplication of genomic dna have been proposed as major causes of dna damage in ois cells .
here , we report that down-regulation of deoxyribonucleoside pools is another endogenous source of dna damage in normal human fibroblasts ( nhfs ) undergoing hras(g12v)-induced senescence .
nhf-hras(g12v) cells underexpressed thymidylate synthase ( ts ) and ribonucleotide reductase ( rr ) , two enzymes required for the entire de novo deoxyribonucleotide biosynthesis , and possessed low dntp levels .
chromatin at the promoters of the genes encoding ts and rr was enriched with retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein and histone h3 tri-methylated at lysine 9 .
importantly , ectopic coexpression of ts and rr or addition of deoxyribonucleosides substantially suppressed dna damage , senescence-associated phenotypes , and proliferation arrest in two types of nhf-expressing hras(g12v) .
reciprocally , short hairpin rna-mediated suppression of ts and rr caused dna damage and senescence in nhfs , although less efficiently than hras(g12v) .
however , overexpression of ts and rr in quiescent nhfs did not overcome proliferation arrest , suggesting that unlike quiescence , ois requires depletion of dntp pools and activated dna replication .
our data identify a previously unknown role of deoxyribonucleotides in regulation of ois .
in this study , laboratory experiments were carried out in order to come to a better understanding of the fate of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( pahs ) in the marine environment and especially on their bioaccumulation , biotransformation and genotoxic effects in fish .
juveniles of turbot ( scophthalmus maximus ) were exposed to pahs through different routes via ( 1 ) a mixture of dissolved pahs , ( 2 ) a pah-polluted sediment and ( 3 ) an oil fuel elutriate .
fish were exposed 4 days followed by a 6-day depuration period .
in each experiment , pah concentrations in the seawater of the tanks were analysed regularly by gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry .
muscle and liver samples were also analysed for parent pah levels and pah bioconcentration factors were calculated .
biotransformation was evaluated by measuring the levels of pah metabolites in fish bile .
genotoxicity was assessed by the alkaline comet assay .
regardless of exposure route , the parent pah concentrations in the liver and muscle showed a peak level 1 day after the beginning of the exposure , followed by a decrease up to the background level towards the end of the experiment , except for the exposure to dissolved pahs for which levels were relatively low throughout the study .
as a consequence , no bioaccumulation was observed in fish tissues at the end of the experiment .
in contrast , regardless of exposure routes , a rapid production of biliary metabolites was observed throughout the whole exposure experiment .
this was especially true for 1-hydroxypyrene , the major metabolite of pyrene .
after 6 days of recovery in clean water , a significant decrease in the total metabolite concentrations occurred in bile .
fish exposed through either route displayed a significant increase in dna strand breaks after 4 days of exposure , and significant correlations were observed between the level of biliary pah metabolites and the level of dna lesions in fish erythrocytes .
overall results indicate that exposure to either a mixture of dissolved pahs , a pah-contaminated sediment or a dispersed oil fuel elutriate leads to biotransformation and increase in dna damage in fish .
the quantification of pah metabolites in bile and dna damage in erythrocytes appear to be suitable for environmental monitoring of marine pollution either in the case of accidental oil spills or sediment contamination .
cancer vaccines based on human tumor-associated antigens ( taa ) have been tested in patients with advanced or recurrent cancer , in combination with or following standard therapy .
their immunogenicity and therapeutic efficacy has been difficult to properly evaluate in that setting characterized by multiple highly suppressive effects of the tumor and the standard therapy on the patient's immune system .
in animal models of human cancer , vaccines administered in the prophylactic setting are most immunogenic and effectively prevent cancer development and progression .
we report results of a clinical study that show that in patients without cancer but with a history of premalignant lesions ( advanced colonic adenomas , precursors to colon cancer ) , a vaccine based on the taa muc1 was highly immunogenic in 17 of 39 ( 43.6% ) of vaccinated individuals , eliciting high levels of anti-muc1 immunoglobulin g ( igg ) and long-lasting immune memory .
lack of response in 22 of 39 individuals was correlated with high levels of circulating myeloid-derived suppressor cells ( mdsc ) prevaccination .
vaccine-elicited muc1-specific immune response and immune memory were not associated with significant toxicity .
our study shows that vaccines based on human taas are immunogenic and safe and capable of eliciting long-term memory that is important for cancer prevention .
we also show that in the premalignant setting , immunosuppressive environment ( e.g. , high levels of mdsc ) might already exist in some individuals , suggesting an even earlier premalignant stage or preselection of nonimmunosuppressed patients for prophylactic vaccination .
cancer prev res ; 6(1) ; 18-26. 2012 aacr .
evaluation of immune dysfunction during the tumor-bearing state is a critical issue in combating cancer .
in this study , we initially found that il-6 , one of the cachectic factors , suppressed cd4(+) t cell-mediated immunity through downregulation of mhc class ii by enhanced arginase activity of dendritic cells ( dc ) in tumor-bearing mice .
we demonstrated that administration of ab against il-6r ( anti-il-6r mab ) greatly enhanced t cell responses and inhibited the growth of tumor in vivo .
we also found that il-6 upregulated the expression of arginase-1 and arginase activity of dc in vitro .
tumor-infiltrating cd11c(+) dc exhibited upregulated mrna expression of arginase-1 but reduced expression of mhc class ii in parallel with the increase in serum il-6 levels at the late stage in tumor-bearing hosts .
however , the administration of anti-il-6r mab into tumor-bearing mice inhibited both the downmodulation of mhc class ii and the upregulation of arginase-1 mrna levels in dc .
furthermore , we noted that n()-hydroxy-l-arginine or l-arginine , an arginase-1 inhibitor , blocked the reduction in mhc class ii levels on cd11c(+) dc during the tumor-bearing state .
finally , we demonstrated that the administration of n()-hydroxy-l-arginine at the peritumor site significantly enhanced cd4(+) t cell responses and inhibited tumor growth .
thus , il-6-mediated arginase activation and the subsequent reduction in mhc class ii expression on dc appeared to be critical mechanisms for inducing dysfunction of the immune system in the tumor-bearing state .
blockade of the il-6-arginase cascade is a promising tool to overcome the dysfunction of antitumor immunity in tumor-bearing hosts .
the aspp2 ( also known as 53bp2l ) tumor suppressor is a proapoptotic member of a family of p53 binding proteins that functions in part by enhancing p53-dependent apoptosis via its c-terminal p53-binding domain .
mounting evidence also suggests that aspp2 harbors important nonapoptotic p53-independent functions .
structural studies identify a small g protein ras-association domain in the aspp2 n terminus .
because ras-induced senescence is a barrier to tumor formation in normal cells , we investigated whether aspp2 could bind ras and stimulate the protein kinase raf/mek/erk signaling cascade .
we now show that aspp2 binds to ras-gtp at the plasma membrane and stimulates ras-induced signaling and perk1/2 levels via promoting ras-gtp loading , b-raf/c-raf dimerization , and c-raf phosphorylation .
these functions require the aspp2 n terminus because bbp ( also known as 53bp2s ) , an alternatively spliced aspp2 isoform lacking the n terminus , was defective in binding ras-gtp and stimulating raf/mek/erk signaling .
decreased aspp2 levels attenuated h-rasv12-induced senescence in normal human fibroblasts and neonatal human epidermal keratinocytes .
together , our results reveal a mechanism for aspp2 tumor suppressor function via direct interaction with ras-gtp to stimulate ras-induced senescence in nontransformed human cells .
abstract : background : chemokine receptor cxcr4 , together with its ligand cxcl12 , plays critical roles in cancer progression , including growth , metastasis and angiogenesis .
ewing sarcoma is a sarcoma with poor prognosis despite current therapies , particularly for patients with advanced-stage disease .
lungs and bone ( marrow ) , organs of predilection for ( primary/metastatic ) ewing sarcoma , represent predominant cxcl12 sources .
methods : to gain insight into the role of the cxcr4-cxcl12 axis in ewing sarcoma , cxcr4 , cxcl12 and hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha protein expression was studied in therapy-naive and metastatic tumors by immunohistochemistry .
cxcr4 function was assessed in vitro , by flow cytometry and proliferation/ cell viability assays , in the presence of recombinant cxcl12 and/or cxcr4-antagonist amd3100 or under hypoxic conditions .
results : whereas cxcr4 was predominantly expressed by tumor cells , cxcl12 was observed in both tumor and stromal areas .
survival analysis revealed an ( expression level-dependent ) negative impact of cxcr4 expression ( p &lt ; 0.04 ) .
a role for the cxcr4-cxcl12 axis in ewing sarcoma growth was suggested by our observations that i ) cxcr4 expression correlated positively with tumor volume at diagnosis ( p = 0.013 ) , ii ) cxcl12 was present within the microenvironment of virtually all cases , iii ) cxcl12 induced proliferation of cxcr4-positive ewing sarcoma cell lines , which could be abrogated by amd3100 .
cxcr4 expression was not correlated with occurrence of metastatic disease .
also , therapy-naive tumors demonstrated higher cxcr4 expression as compared to metastases ( p = 0.027 ) .
evaluation of in vivo hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha expression and culture of cells under hypoxic conditions revealed no role for hypoxia in cxcr4 expression .
conclusions : together , our results imply a crucial role for the cxcr4-cxcl12 axis in auto- and/or paracrine growth stimulation .
integration of cxcr4-targeting strategies into first- and/or second-line treatment regimens may represent a promising treatment option for ewing sarcoma .
the down-regulation of dominant oncogenes , including c-myc , in tumor cells often leads to the induction of senescence via mechanisms that are not completely identified .
in the current study , we demonstrate that myc-depleted melanoma cells undergo extensive dna damage that is caused by the underexpression of thymidylate synthase ( ts ) and ribonucleotide reductase ( rr ) and subsequent depletion of deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate pools .
simultaneous genetic inhibition of ts and rr in melanoma cells induced dna damage and senescence phenotypes very similar to the ones caused by myc-depletion .
reciprocally , overexpression of ts and rr in melanoma cells or addition of deoxyribo-nucleosides to culture media substantially inhibited dna damage and senescence-associated phenotypes caused by c-myc depletion .
our data demonstrate the essential role of ts and rr in c-myc-dependent suppression of senescence in melanoma cells .
androgens regulate both the physiological development of the prostate and the pathology of prostatic diseases .
however , the mechanisms by which androgens exert their regulatory activities on these processes are poorly understood .
in this study , we have determined that androgens regulate overall cell metabolism and cell growth , in part , by increasing autophagy in prostate cancer cells .
importantly , inhibition of autophagy using either pharmacological or molecular inhibitors significantly abrogated androgen-induced prostate cancer cell growth .
mechanistically , androgen-mediated autophagy appears to promote cell growth by augmenting intracellular lipid accumulation , an effect previously demonstrated to be necessary for prostate cancer cell growth .
further , autophagy and subsequent cell growth is potentiated , in part , by androgen-mediated increases in reactive oxygen species .
these findings demonstrate a role for increased fat metabolism and autophagy in prostatic neoplasias and highlight the potential of targeting underexplored metabolic pathways for the development of novel therapeutics .
testicular germ cell tumors ( tgct ) and patient-derived cell lines are extremely sensitive to cisplatin and other interstrand cross-link ( icl ) inducing agents .
nevertheless , a subset of tgcts are either innately resistant or acquire resistance to cisplatin during treatment .
understanding the mechanisms underlying tgct sensitivity/resistance to cisplatin as well as the identification of novel strategies to target cisplatin-resistant tgcts have major clinical implications .
herein , we have examined the proficiency of five embryonal carcinoma ( ec ) cell lines to repair cisplatin-induced icls .
using h2ax staining as a marker of double strand break formation , we found that ec cell lines were either incapable of or had a reduced ability to repair icl-induced damage .
the defect correlated with reduced homologous recombination ( hr ) repair , as demonstrated by the reduction of rad51 foci formation and by direct evaluation of hr efficiency using a gfp-reporter substrate .
hr-defective tumors cells are known to be sensitive to the treatment with poly(adp-ribose) polymerase ( parp ) inhibitor .
in line with this observation , we found that ec cell lines were also sensitive to parp inhibitor monotherapy .
the magnitude of sensitivity correlated with hr-repair reduced proficiency and with the expression levels and activity of parp1 protein .
in addition , we found that parp inhibition strongly enhanced the response of the most resistant ec cells to cisplatin , by reducing their ability to overcome the damage .
these results point to a reduced proficiency of hr repair as a source of sensitivity of ecs to icl-inducing agents and parp inhibitor monotherapy , and suggest that pharmacological inhibition of parp can be exploited to target the stem cell component of the tgcts ( namely ecs ) and to enhance the sensitivity of cisplatin-resistant tgcts to standard treatments .
heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor ( hb-egf ) is a member of the epidermal growth factor family and has a variety of physiological and pathological functions .
modulation of hb-egf activity might have a therapeutic potential in the oncology area .
we explored the therapeutic possibilities by characterizing the in vitro biological activity of anti-hb-egf monoclonal antibody y-142 .
egf receptor ( egfr ) ligand and species specificities of y-142 were tested .
neutralizing activities of y-142 against hb-egf were evaluated in egfr and erbb4 signaling .
biological activities of y-142 were assessed in cancer cell proliferation and angiogenesis assays and compared with the anti-egfr antibody cetuximab , the hb-egf inhibitor crm197 , and the anti-vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) antibody bevacizumab .
the binding epitope was determined with alanine scanning .
y-142 recognized hb-egf as well as the egfr ligand amphiregulin , and bound specifically to human hb-egf , but not to rodent hb-egf .
in addition , y-142 neutralized hb-egf-induced phosphorylation of egfr and erbb4 , and blocked their downstream erk1/2 and akt signaling .
we also found that y-142 inhibited hb-egf-induced cancer cell proliferation , endothelial cell proliferation , tube formation , and vegf production more effectively than cetuximab and crm197 and that y-142 was superior to bevacizumab in the inhibition of hb-egf-induced tube formation .
six amino acids in the egf-like domain were identified as the y-142 binding epitope .
among the six amino acids , the combination of f115 and y123 determined the amphiregulin cross-reactivity and that f115 accounted for the species selectivity .
furthermore , it was suggested that the potent neutralizing activity of y-142 was derived from its recognition of r142 and y123 and its high affinity to hb-egf .
y-142 has a potent hb-egf neutralizing activity that modulates multiple biological activities of hb-egf including cancer cell proliferation and angiogenic activities .
y-142 may have a potential to be developed into a therapeutic agent for the treatment of hb-egf-dependent cancers .
breast cancer incidence is increased in women receiving menopausal hormone therapy with estrogen plus progestin but not with estrogen alone .
the use of a tissue-selective estrogen complex ( tsec ) has been proposed as a novel menopausal hormone therapy strategy to eliminate the requirement for a progestogen .
combination of bazedoxifene ( bza ) with conjugated estrogens ( ces ) , the first tsec , has shown beneficial effects .
whether it would exert antiestrogenic effects on breast cancer is not clear .
to address this issue , we compared estradiol ( e(2) ) and ce alone on proliferation and apoptosis in mcf-7 breast cancer cells .
ce stimulated growth of mcf-7 cells at a peak concentration 10-fold higher than required for e(2) .
both ce and e(2) alone increased dna synthesis and reduced apoptosis with activation of mapk , akt , and p70s6k and up-regulation of antiapoptotic factors survivin , bcl-2 , and x-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein , these effects could be completely blocked by bza .
gene expression studies demonstrated that ce and e(2) were equally potent on expression of cmyc , ps2 , and wnt1 inducible signaling pathway protein 2 , whereas the stimulatory effects of ce on progesterone receptor and amphiregulin expression were weaker than e(2) .
bza effectively blocked each of these effects and showed no estrogen agonistic effects when used alone .
our results indicate that the stimulatory effects of e(2) or ce on breast cancer cells could be completely abrogated by bza .
these studies imply that the ce/bza , tsec , exerts antiestrogenic effects on breast cancer cells and might block the growth of occult breast neoplasms in postmenopausal women , resulting in an overall reduction in tumor incidence .
gliomas display anoikis resistance , enhanced invasion in to the adjacent brain parenchyma and eventually recur despite using the standard therapies .
our studies on increased anoikis sensitization in matrix metalloproteinase-2 ( mmp-2)-knockdown 4910 and 5310 human glioma xenograft cells were interestingly correlated with p21-activated kinase 4 ( pak4 ) inhibition , prompting us to further investigate the role of pak4 in glioma .
here , we report the pak4 upregulation in positive correlation with increasing glioma pathological grades .
the sirna-mediated pak4 knockdown elevated anoikis , and inhibited invasion and migration by downregulating mmp-2 , v3-integrin and phospho-epidermal growth factor receptor ( phospho-egfr ) .
the cdna-pcr arrays revealed a transcriptional suppression of essential proteins involved in cell proliferation and adhesion in pak4-knockdown cells .
most importantly , glutathione s-transferase pull-down assays demonstrated the mmp-2 as a new pak4-interacting protein which binds to pak4 kinase domain .
individual egfr/erbb2 inhibitor and v3 antibody treatments in pak4si-treated cells indicated the regulation of v3/egfr survival signaling by pak4 .
overexpression of pak4 significantly reversed the mmp2si-induced cell death in both cell lines .
codepletion of pak4 and mmp-2 resulted in robust anoikis-mediated cell death , and severely inhibited invasive and migratory properties in these cells .
pak4si inhibited in vivo tumor growth in nude mice by inhibiting mmp-2 , 3-integrin and phospho-egfr levels in tumors .
our findings indicate a physical association between pak4 and mmp-2 , and suggest the future therapeutic potential of pak4/mmp-2 dual targeting in glioma treatment .
lowering the threshold of cellular senescence , the process employed by cells to thwart abnormal cell proliferation , though inhibition of cdk2 or skp2 ( regulator of cdk inhibitors ) has been recently suggested as a potential avenue for cancer treatment .
in this study , we employ a published mathematical model of g1/s transition involving the dna-damage signal transduction pathway to conduct carefully constructed computational experiments to highlight the effectiveness of manipulating cellular senescence in inhibiting damaged cell proliferation .
we first demonstrate the suitability of the mathematical model to explore senescence by highlighting the overlap between senescence pathways and those involved in g1/s transition and dna damage signal transduction .
we then investigate the effect of cdk2 deficiency on senescence in healthy cells , followed by effectiveness of cdk2 deficiency in triggering senescence in dna damaged cells .
for this , we focus on the behaviour of cyce , whose peak response indicates g1/s transition , for several reduced cdk2 levels in healthy as well as two dna-damage conditions to calculate the probability (  ) or the percentage of cdk2 deficient cells passing g1/s checkpoint ( (1-) indicates level of senescence ) .
results show that 50% cdk2 deficiency can cause senescence in all healthy cells in a fairly uniform cell population ; whereas , most healthy cells ( 67% ) in a heterogeneous population escape senescence .
this finding is novel to our study .
under both low- and high-dna damaged conditions , 50% cdk deficiency can cause 65% increase in senescence in a heterogeneous cell population .
furthermore , the model analyses the relationship between cdk2 and its ckis ( p21 , p27 ) to help search for other effective ways to bring forward cellular senescence .
results show that the degradation rate of p21 and initial concentration of p27 are effective in lowering cdk2 levels to lower the senescence threshold .
specifically , cdk2 and p27 are the most effective in triggering senescence while p21 having a smaller influence .
while receiving experimental support , these findings specify in detail the inhibitory effects of ckis .
however , simultaneous variation of cdk2 and ckis produces a dramatic reduction of damage cells passing the g1/s with cdk2&amp;p27 combination causing senescence in almost all damaged cells .
this combined effect of cdk2&amp;ckis on senescence is a novel contribution in this study .
a review of the crucial protein complexes revealed that the concentration of active cyce/cdk2-p that controls cell cycle arrest provides support for the above findings with cyce/cdk2-p undergoing the largest reduction ( over 100% ) under the combined cdk2&amp;cki conditions leading to the arrest of most of the damaged cells .
our study thus provides quantitative assessments for the previously published qualitative findings on senescence and highlights new avenues for bringing forward senescence bar .
aurora a kinase has drawn considerable attention as a therapeutic target for cancer therapy .
however , the underlying molecular and cellular mechanisms of the anticancer effects of aurora a kinase inhibition are still not fully understood .
herein , we show that depletion of aurora a kinase by rna interference ( rnai ) in hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) cells upregulated foxo1 in a p53-dependent manner , which induces cell cycle arrest .
introduction of an rnai-resistant aurora a kinase into aurora a-knockdown cells resulted in downregulation of foxo1 expression and rescued proliferation .
in addition , silencing of foxo1 in aurora a-knockdown cells allowed the cells to exit cytostatic arrest , which , in turn , led to massive cell death .
our results suggest that foxo1 is responsible for growth arrest at the g 2/m phase that is induced by aurora a kinase inhibition .
environmental or occupational exposure to low doses of arsenic induces a series of health problems including cancer .
the molecular events in arsenic-induced carcinogenicity remain to be defined .
in the nuli-1 immortalized human lung epithelial cell line with p53 and prb deficiency , exposure to low doses of arsenic trioxide for 72h promoted cell proliferation and upregulated the gene transcription levels of foxm1 , cdc6 , cdc25a , and cyclin d1 , which are both critical cell cycle regulatory genes and proto-oncogenes .
continuous in vitro exposure to 1m arsenic trioxide for 34 wks induced malignant cell transformation , as evidenced by enhanced anchorage-independent cell growth .
the expression of foxm1 , cdc6 , cdc25a , and cyclin d1 was dynamically elevated at the gene transcription and protein levels in the process of cell transformation .
the carcinogenic ability of transformed cell colonies coincides with the expression levels of foxm1 in in vitro anchorage-independent growth assays and in vivo tumor xenograft formation assays .
in reverse , the knockdown of foxm1 in lung adenocarcinoma a549 cells or arsenic-transformed nuli-1 cells significantly decreased anchorage-independent cell growth and tumor xenograft formation .
the transformed nuli-1 cells showed genomic instability in the form of copy number variation ( cnv ) at chromosome 1 , 5 , 6 , 18 , and 20 , but not loss of heterozygosity ( loh ) .
these results showed for the first time that chronic exposure to low doses of arsenic trioxide promoted lung carcinogenicity , in part by aberrantly upregulating foxm1 and its associated oncogenes , when the tumor suppressor genes p53 and prb were inactivated.  2012 wiley periodicals , inc .
capsaicin , one of the major pungent ingredients found in red peppers , has been recently demonstrated to induce apoptosis in various malignant cell lines through an unclear mechanism .
in this study , the effect of capsaicin on proliferation and apoptosis in the human pancreatic cancer cell line panc-1 and its possible mechanism(s) of action were investigated .
the results of a cell counting kit-8 ( cck-8 ) assay revealed that capsaicin significantly decreased the viability of panc-1 cells in a dose-dependent manner .
capsaicin induced g0/g1 phase cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in panc-1 cells as demonstrated by a flow cytometric assessment .
caspase-3 expression at both the protein and mrna level was promoted following capsaicin treatment .
furthermore , we revealed that phospho-pi3 kinase p85 ( tyr458 ) and phospho-akt ( ser473 ) in panc-1 cells were downregulated in response to capsaicin .
moreover , capsaicin gavage significantly inhibited the growth of pancreatic cancer panc-1 cell xenografts in athymic nude mice .
an increased number of tunel-positive cells and cleaved caspase-3 were observed in capsaicin-treated mice .
in vivo , capsaicin downregulated the expression of phospho-pi3 kinase p85 ( tyr458 ) and phospho-akt ( ser473 ) .
in conclusion , we have demonstrated that capsaicin is an inhibitor of growth of panc-1 cells , and downregulation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/akt pathway may be involved in capsaicin-induced apoptosis in vitro and in vivo .
sorafenib is a multi-targeted agent and has been reported to have potent antitumor effects against various types of tumors , including human non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) .
in this study , we explored in vitro the antitumor effects of sorafenib alone and in combination with gemcitabine in epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor ( egfr-tki)-resistant human lung cancer cell lines and the related molecular mechanisms .
the nsclc cell lines a549 ( mutant kras ) , h1666 ( mutant braf ) and h1975 ( mutant egfr-t790m ) were treated with sorafenib and gemcitabine alone and in combination .
the cytotoxicity was assessed by mtt assay , cell cycle distribution was analyzed by flow cytometry , and alterations in signaling pathways were analyzed by western blotting .
we found that sorafenib exhibited dose-dependent growth inhibition in all three egfr-tki-resistant nsclc cell lines .
when sorafenib was combined with gemcitabine , synergistic activity was observed in the a549 and h1666 cells and antagonistic activity was observed in the h1975 cells .
sorafenib arrested the cell cycle at the g1 phase , whereas gemcitabine arrested the cell cycle at the s phase .
sorafenib inhibited c-raf and p-erk in the a549 cells and b-raf and p-erk in the h1666 and h1975 cells .
the molecular mechanism of this synergism is that raf/mek/erk which are activated by gemcitabine are efficiently suppressed by simultaneously administered sorafenib .
by contrast , the mechanism of antagonism may be due to mutual interference with the cell cycle in the h1975 cells .
in conclusion , we found that sorafenib exhibits antiproliferative effects in egfr-tki-resistant nsclc cell lines and when combined with gemcitabine demonstrates synergistic activity in a549 and h1666 cells but antagonistic activity in h1975 cells .
radix of asiasarum heterotropoides var. mandshuricum f. maekawa ( a. radix ) has been prescribed for treating pain , allergies and inflammatory disorders in traditional oriental medicine .
however , only limited information on the anticancer effects of a. radix is currently available .
the aim of this study was to determine the anticancer effect of the ethanol extract of a. radix ( eear ) on hct-116 human colon cancer cells and to investigate its underlying mechanisms of action .
eear significantly induced g2/m cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in hct-116 cells .
eear-induced apoptosis was observed in parallel with activation of caspases and an increased ratio of bax ( pro-apoptotic)/bcl2 ( anti-apoptotic ) .
western blot analyses revealed that eear elevated the expression of p53 and p21(waf/cip1) and decreased the expression of the regulator proteins of g2/m phase progression , such as cdc2 and cyclin b. the upregulation of p53 by eear was due to the increased levels of p53 mrna without a similar increase in proteasome-mediated p53 degradation .
eear-induced apoptosis in hct-116 cells was dependent on p53 expression , as determined by sirna-mediated p53 knockdown .
taken together , these results suggest that eear inhibits the growth of the hct-116 cells through induction of g2/m cell cycle arrest and apoptosis , which are mediated by p53 expression .
piceatannol has potent anti-inflammatory , immunomodulatory , anticancer and antiproliferative effects .
however , little is known about the mechanism by which piceatannol inhibits invasion and metastasis .
the aim of the current study was to investigate the effects of piceatannol on the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 ( mmp-9 ) in du145 human prostate cancer cells .
the results revealed that mmp-9 activity was significantly increased in response to tumor necrosis factor- ( tnf- ) .
however , treatment with piceatannol reversed tnf-- and mmp-9-induced gelatin zymography and its gene expression .
in addition , a matrigel invasion assay determined that piceatannol reduces the tnf--induced invasion of du145 cells .
nuclear factor- b ( nf-b ) is a significant transcription factor that regulates numerous genes involved in tumor cell invasion and metastasis .
therefore , whether piceatannol acts on nf-b to regulate mmp-9 gene expression was analyzed .
the results revealed that piceatannol attenuates mmp-9 gene expression via the suppression of nf-b activity .
using a specific nf-b inhibitor , pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate , it was confirmed that tnf--induced mmp-9 gene expression is primarily regulated by nf-b activation .
piceatannol inhibited nf-b activity by suppressing nuclear translocation of the nf-b p65 and p50 subunits .
furthermore , tnf--induced akt phosphorylation was significantly downregulated in the presence of piceatannol .
the akt inhibitor ly294002 caused a significant decrease in tnf--induced nf-b activity and mmp-9 gene expression .
overall , these data suggest that piceatannol inhibits tnf--induced invasion by suppression of mmp-9 activation via the akt-mediated nf-b pathway in du145 prostate cancer cells .
gefitinib , the specific inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) , may cause growth delay in cancer cell lines .
thorough understanding of the downstream cellular signaling of gefitinib will facilitate the discovery of biomarkers for predicting outcomes and monitoring anti-egfr therapies , and provide information for key targets for therapeutic intervention .
in this study , we investigated the role of transducer of erbb2.1 ( tob1 ) in gefitinib therapy .
using the lung carcinoma cell lines a549 and nci-h1975 , the results suggested that gefitinib might mediate cell cycle arrest in lung cancer cells at least by targeting tob1 expression .
gefitinib treatment caused cell cycle arrest predominantly at the g1 phase , which is associated with tob1 nuclear translocation and its interaction with cyclin d1 .
we also showed that knockdown of tob1 expression by rnai rescued lung cancer cells from gefitinib-induced cell-proliferative arrest .
these results suggest that tob1 interaction with cyclin d1 and nuclear translocation is directly involved in the gefitinib-induced anti-proliferative cell cycle arrest .
acute leukemia is a disorder of the hematopoietic system characterized by the expansion of a clonal population of cells blocked from differentiating into mature cells .
recent studies have shown that chalcones and their derivatives induce apoptosis in different cell lines .
since new compounds with biological activity are needed , the aim of this study was to evaluate the cytotoxic effect of three synthetic chalcones , derived from 1-naphthaldehyde and 2-naphthaldehyde , on human acute myeloid leukemia k562 cells and on human acute lymphoblastic leukemia jurkat cells .
based on the results , the most cytotoxic compound ( a1 ) was chosen for further analysis in six human acute leukemia cells and in a human colon adenocarcinoma cell line ( ht-29 ) .
chalcone a1 significantly reduced the cell viability of k562 , jurkat , kasumi , u937 , cem and nb4 cells in a concentration and time-dependent manner when compared with the control group ( ic(50) values between 1.5m and 40m ) .
it was also cytotoxic to hl-29 cells .
to further examine its effect on normal cells , peripheral blood lymphocytes collected from healthy volunteers were incubated with the compound .
it has also been incubated with human fibroblasts cultured from bone marrow ( jma ) .
chalcone a1 is non-cytotoxic to pbl cells and to jma cells .
a1 caused significant cell cycle arrest in all phases according to the cell line , and increased the proportion of cells in the sub g0/g1 phase .
to evaluate whether this chalcone induced cell death via an apoptotic or necrotic pathway , cell morphology was examined using fluorescence microscopy .
cells treated with a1 at ic(50) demonstrated the morphological characteristic of apoptosis , such as chromatin condensation and formation of apoptotic bodies .
apoptosis was confirmed by externalization of phosphatidylserine , which was detected by the annexin v-fitc method , and by dna fragmentation .
the results suggest that chalcone a1 has potential as a new lead compound for cancer therapy .
metformin is a well-established diabetes drug that prevents the onset of most types of human cancers in diabetic patients , especially by targeting cancer stem cells .
metformin exerts its protective effects by functioning as a weak " mitochondrial poison, " as it acts as a complex i inhibitor and prevents oxidative mitochondrial metabolism ( oxphos ) .
thus , mitochondrial metabolism must play an essential role in promoting tumor growth .
to determine the functional role of " mitochondrial health " in breast cancer pathogenesis , here we used mitochondrial uncoupling proteins ( ucps ) to genetically induce mitochondrial dysfunction in either human breast cancer cells ( mda-mb-231 ) or cancer-associated fibroblasts ( htert-bj1 cells ) .
our results directly show that all three ucp family members ( ucp-1/2/3 ) induce autophagy and mitochondrial dysfunction in human breast cancer cells , which results in significant reductions in tumor growth .
conversely , induction of mitochondrial dysfunction in cancer-associated fibroblasts has just the opposite effect .
more specifically , overexpression of ucp-1 in stromal fibroblasts increases -oxidation , ketone body production and the release of atp-rich vesicles , which " fuels " tumor growth by providing high-energy nutrients in a paracrine fashion to epithelial cancer cells .
hence , the effects of mitochondrial dysfunction are truly compartment-specific .
thus , we conclude that the beneficial anticancer effects of mitochondrial inhibitors ( such as metformin ) may be attributed to the induction of mitochondrial dysfunction in the epithelial cancer cell compartment .
our studies identify cancer cell mitochondria as a clear target for drug discovery and for novel therapeutic interventions .
background:sorafenib is the only drug approved for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) .
the bioenergetic propensity of cancer cells has been correlated to anticancer drug resistance , but such correlation is unclear in sorafenib resistance of hcc.methods:six sorafenib-naive hcc cell lines and one sorafenib-resistant hcc cell line ( huh-7r ; derived from sorafenib-sensitive huh-7 ) were used .
the bioenergetic propensity was calculated by measurement of lactate in the presence or absence of oligomycin .
dichloroacetate ( dca ) , a pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase ( pdk ) inhibitor , and sirna of hexokinase 2 ( hk2 ) were used to target relevant pathways of cancer metabolism .
cell viability , mitochondrial membrane potential , and sub-g1 fraction were measured for in vitro efficacy .
reactive oxygen species ( ros ) , adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) and glucose uptake were also measured .
a subcutaneous xenograft mouse model was used for in vivo efficacy.results:the bioenergetic propensity for using glycolysis correlated with decreased sorafenib sensitivity ( r(2)=0.9067 , among sorafenib-naive cell lines ; p=0.003 , compared between huh-7 and huh-7r ) .
dca reduced lactate production and increased ros and atp , indicating activation of oxidative phosphorylation ( oxphos ) .
dca markedly sensitised sorafenib-resistant hcc cells to sorafenib-induced apoptosis ( sub-g1 ( combination vs sorafenib ) : hep3b , 65.48.4% vs 132.9% ; huh-7r , 25.3 5.7% vs 4.31.5% ; each p&lt;0.0001 ) , whereas sirna of hk2 did not .
sorafenib ( 10mgkg(-1) per day ) plus dca ( 100mgkg(-1) per day ) also resulted in superior tumour regression than sorafenib alone in mice ( tumour size : -87% vs -36% , p&lt;0.001).conclusion:the bioenergetic propensity is a potentially useful predictive biomarker of sorafenib sensitivity , and activation of oxphos by pdk inhibitors may overcome sorafenib resistance of hcc.british journal of cancer advance online publication , 20 december 2012 ; doi:10.1038/bjc.2012.559 www.bjcancer.com .
trinucleotide repeat ( tnr ) expansions and deletions are associated with human neurodegenerative diseases and prostate cancer .
recent studies have pointed to a linkage between oxidative dna damage , base excision repair ( ber ) and tnr expansion , which is demonstrated by the observation that dna polymerase  ( pol  ) gap-filling synthesis acts in concert with alternate flap cleavage by flap endonuclease 1 ( fen1 ) to mediate cag repeat expansions .
in this study , we provide the first evidence that the repair of a dna base lesion can also contribute to cag repeat deletions that were initiated by the formation of hairpins on both the template and the damaged strand of a continuous run of ( cag)(20 ) or ( cag)(25 ) repeats .
most important , we found that pol  not only bypassed one part of the large template hairpin but also managed to pass through almost the entire length of small hairpin .
the unique hairpin bypass of pol  resulted in large and small deletions in coordination with fen1 alternate flap cleavage .
our results provide new insight into the role of ber in modulating genome stability that is associated with human diseases .
purpose : prostate cancer ( pca ) development is often associated with deletion or silencing of tumor suppressor pten , a negative regulator of the pi3k-akt pathway , leading to resistance to various therapies .
therefore , the pi3k/akt pathway plays a central role in various cellular processes leading to malignant phenotype , and , consequently is an attractive target .
however , the efficacy of akt inhibitors is limited by resistance mechanisms that result in minimal tumor cell death .
methods:effects of akt inhibitor azd5363 were investigated on cell proliferation , apoptosis , akt pathway and survival mechanisms .
we then examined the impacts of inhibition of autophagy combined with azd5363 on cell proliferation and apoptosis .
furthermore , the anti-cancer activity of combination treatment of the lysosomotropic inhibitor of autophagy ( chloroquine ) with akt inhibitor azd5363 was evaluated in pc-3 prostate cancer xenografts .
results : we show that azd5363 affected akt downstream pathway by reducing p-mtor , p-p70s6k and p-s6k .
while azd5363 monotherapy induced g2 growth arrest and autophagy , it failed to induce significant apoptosis in pc-3 and du145 pca cells .
blocking autophagy using pharmacological inhibitors or genetic inhibitors enhanced cell death induced by azd5363 in these pca cells .
importantly , the combination of azd5363 with chloroquine significantly reduced tumor volume by 84.9% compared with the control group and by 77.5% compared with either drug alone in pc3 xenografts .
conclusions : these data demonstrate that akt inhibitor azd5363 , synergizes with the lysosomotropic inhibitor of autophagy , chloroquine , to induce apoptosis and delay tumor progression in pca models that are resistant to monotherapy azd5363 , providing a new therapeutic approach potentially translatable to patients .
background : although quiescence ( reversible cell cycle arrest ) is a key part in the life history and fate of many mammalian cell types , the mechanisms of gene regulation in quiescent cells are poorly understood .
we sought to clarify the role of micrornas as regulators of the cellular functions of quiescent human fibroblasts .
results : using microarrays , we discovered that the expression of the majority of profiled micrornas differed between proliferating and quiescent fibroblasts .
fibroblasts induced into quiescence by contact inhibition or serum starvation had similar microrna profiles , indicating common changes induced by distinct quiescence signals .
by analyzing the gene expression patterns of microrna target genes with quiescence , we discovered a strong regulatory function for mir-29 , which is downregulated with quiescence .
using microarrays and immunoblotting , we confirmed that mir-29 targets genes encoding collagen and other extracellular matrix proteins and that those target genes are induced in quiescence .
in addition , overexpression of mir-29 resulted in more rapid cell cycle re-entry from quiescence .
we also found that let-7 and mir-125 were upregulated in quiescent cells .
overexpression of either one alone resulted in slower cell cycle re-entry from quiescence , while the combination of both together slowed cell cycle re-entry even further .
conclusions : micrornas regulate key aspects of fibroblast quiescence including the proliferative state of the cells as well as their gene expression profiles , in particular , the induction of extracellular matrix proteins in quiescent fibroblasts .
high-grade prostate cancers express high levels of matrix metalloproteinases ( mmps ) , major enzymes involved in tumor invasion and metastasis .
however , the tumor cell lines commonly employed for prostate cancer research express only small amounts of mmps when cultivated as monolayer cultures , in common culture media .
the present study was conducted to ascertain whether culture conditions that include fibronectin can alter mmp2 and mmp9 expression by the human prostatic epithelial cell lines rwpe-1 , lncap and pc-3 .
these cells were individually seeded at 210(4) cells/cm(2) , cultivated until they reached 80% confluence , and then exposed for 4h to fibronectin , after which the conditioned medium was analyzed by gelatin zymography .
untreated cells were given common medium .
only rwpe-1 cells express detectable amounts of mmp9 when cultivated in common medium , whereas the addition of fibronectin induced high expression levels of pro and active forms of mmp2 in all tested cell lines .
our findings demonstrate that normal and tumor prostate cell lines express mmp2 activity when in contact with extracellular matrix components or blood plasma proteins such as fibronectin .
future studies of transcriptomes and proteomes in prostate cancer research using these cell lines should not neglect these important conclusions .
p53 plays an important role in regulating a wide variety of cellular processes , such as cell cycle arrest and/or apoptosis .
dysfunction of p53 is frequently associated with several pathologies , such as cancer and neurodegenerative diseases .
in recent years substantial progress has been made in developing novel p53-activating molecules .
importantly , modulation of p53 interaction with its main inhibitor , mdm2 , has been highlighted as a promising therapy target .
in this regard , bimolecular fluorescence complementation ( bifc ) analysis , by providing direct visualization of protein interactions in living cells , offers a straightforward method to identify potential modulators of protein interactions .
in this study , we developed a simple and robust venus-based bifc system to screen for modulators of p53-p53 and p53-mdm2 interactions in live mammalian cells .
we used nutlin-3 , a well-known disruptor of p53-mdm2 interaction , to validate the specificity of the assay .
the reduction of bifc signal mediated by nutlin-3 was correlated with an increase in puma transactivation , parp cleavage , and cell death .
finally , this novel bifc approach was exploited to identify potential modulators of p53-mdm2 complex formation among a commercially available chemical library of 33 protein phosphatase inhibitors .
our results constitute " proof-of-concept " that this model has strong potential as an alternative to traditional target-based drug discovery strategies .
identification of new modulators of p53-p53 and p53-mdm2 interactions will be useful to achieve synergistic drug efficacy with currently used anti-tumor therapies .
breast cancer constitutes a major health problem for women worldwide .
however , its incidence varies between populations and geographical locations .
these variations could be diet-related , since there are several carcinogenic compounds in the modern diet , while natural products contain various anti-cancer elements .
several lines of evidence indicate that , in addition to their clear preventive effect , these compounds could also be used as therapeutic agents .
in the present report we have shown that oleuropein , a pharmacologically safe natural product of olive leaf , has potent anti-breast cancer properties .
indeed , oleuropein exhibits specific cytotoxicity against breast cancer cells , with higher effect on the basal-like mda-mb-231 cells than on the luminal mcf-7 cells .
this effect is mediated through the induction of apoptosis via the mitochondrial pathway .
moreover , oleuropein inhibits cell proliferation by delaying the cell cycle at s phase and up-regulated the cyclin-dependent inhibitor p21 .
furthermore , oleuropein inhibited the anti-apoptosis and pro-proliferation protein nf-b and its main oncogenic target cyclin d1 .
this inhibition could explain the great effect of oleuropein on cell proliferation and cell death of breast cancer cells .
therefore , oleuropein warrants further investigations to prove its utility in preventing/treating breast cancer , especially the less-responsive basal-like type .
purpose : acid ceramidase ( ac ) occupies an important place in the control of cancer cell proliferation .
we tested the influence of ac inhibition on the effects of psc 833 , a p-glycoprotein antagonist with potent ceramide-generating capacity , to determine whether ac could be a therapeutic target in pancreatic cancer .
methods : ceramide metabolism was followed using ( 3)h-palmitate , and molecular species were determined by mass spectroscopy .
apoptosis was measured by dna fragmentation , autophagy by acridine orange staining , and cell cycle was assessed by flow cytometry and rb phosphorylation .
ac was measured in intact cells using fluorescent substrate .
results : exposure of human panc-1 or mia-paca-2 cells to psc 833 promoted increases in de novo ( dihydro)ceramides , ( dihydro)glucosylceramides , and ( dihydro)sphingomyelins , demarking ceramide generation and robust metabolism .
despite the multifold increases in ( dihydro)ceramide levels , cells were refractory to psc 833 .
however , psc 833 produced a dose-dependent decrease in dna synthesis and dose- and time-dependent decreases in rb phosphorylation , consistent with cell cycle arrest as demonstrated at g1 .
cytostatic effects of psc 833 were converted to cytotoxic end-point by acid ceramidase inhibition .
cytotoxicity was accompanied by formation of acridine orange-stained acidic vesicles and an increase in lc3 expression , indicative of autophagic response .
cell death was not reversed by preexposure to myriocin , which blocks psc 833-induced ceramide generation .
conclusion : although the role of ceramide in end-point cytotoxicity is unclear , our results suggest that acid ceramidase is a viable target in pancreatic cancer .
we propose that ac inhibition will be effective in concert with other anticancer therapies .
epirubicin was developed as a semi-synthetic anthracycline derivative to circumvent the cardiotoxic limitations associated with the use of doxorubicin in the clinic .
anthracycline compounds have been demonstrated to form covalent drug-dna adducts utilising endogenous and exogenous sources of formaldehyde ; however , previous investigations of the formation of epirubicin-dna adducts provide conflicting evidence for adduct formation .
this work provides evidence that epirubicin acts to form drug-dna adducts at physiologically relevant concentrations and demonstrates that the rate of formation of epirubicin-dna adducts is slower than that observed for other anthracycline compounds , explaining why they are only detectable under defined experimental conditions .
formation of covalent epirubicin-dna adducts improves the apoptotic profile of epirubicin and provides opportunities to overcome drug resistance and cardiotoxic limitations .
the mechanisms by which tumour cells metastasize and the role that cell polarity proteins play in this process are not well understood .
we report that partitioning defective protein 3 ( par3 ) is dysregulated in metastasis in human breast cancer , and is associated with a higher tumour grade and erbb2-positive status .
downregulation of par3 cooperated with erbb2 to induce cell invasion and metastasis in vivo .
interestingly , the metastatic behaviour was not associated with an overt mesenchymal phenotype .
however , loss of par3 inhibited e-cadherin junction stability , disrupted membrane and actin dynamics at cell-cell junctions and decreased cell-cell cohesion in a manner dependent on the tiam1/rac-gtp pathway .
inhibition of this pathway restored e-cadherin junction stability and blocked invasive behaviour of cells lacking par3 , suggesting that loss of par3 promotes metastatic behaviour of erbb2-induced tumour epithelial cells by decreasing cell-cell cohesion .
background : cd81 is a transmembrane protein that serves as a putative receptor for hepatitis c virus .
in addition , cd81 has been suggested to be involved in a broad range of other cellular functions .
its putative implication in tumorigenesis has so far , however , remained largely unexplored .
to assess the candidacy of cd81 as a tumor suppressor in gastric cancer development , we investigated its expression and function in a series of primary gastric tumors and gastric tumor-derived cell lines .
methods : the expression and concomitant methylation status of the cd81 gene and its effect on tumor development and cellular signaling were evaluated .
results : cd81 mrna levels were found to be low in 16 of 40 ( 40% ) primary tumors and 9 of 14 ( 64.2% ) cell lines , and these low expression levels were found to correlate with the stage and grade of the tumors .
genomic alterations of cd81 were not encountered , whereas its expression could be re-activated in low expressing cells upon 5-aza-dc treatment .
bisulfite dna sequencing analysis of 10 cpg sites within the 5 ' proximal region of the cd81 gene promoter revealed that the observed transcriptional silencing was tightly associated with aberrant hypermethylation .
subsequent restoration of cd81 expression induced a g(1) cell cycle arrest and apoptosis , whereas sirna-mediated cd81 down-regulation promoted cell proliferation and attenuated cellular responses to various apoptotic stress stimuli .
also the colony-forming ability of the tumor cells could be inhibited and enhanced through cd81 up- and down-regulation , respectively .
cd81 was found to inhibit p38 ( but not erk , jnk and akt ) phosphorylation and its growth suppressive effect could be abolished through p38 up- and down-regulation .
conclusion : from our data we conclude that epigenetic inactivation of cd81 is a common feature of gastric tumors and that this inactivation may render growth and survival advantages to the tumor cells , at least partially through p38 signaling .
pterostilbene , a polyphenolic compound present in grapes and other fruits , has been demonstrated to inhibit growth and induce apoptosis and autophagy in some cancer cell types .
we found that pterostilbene at the ic90 concentration of 44 m inhibited proliferation and induced apoptosis in molt4 human leukemia cells .
treatment with pterostilbene resulted in a transient accumulation of cells in the g0/g1-cell cycle phase followed by the s-phase arrest .
pterostilbene-induced apoptotic death of molt4 cells was mediated by caspase-3 activation and was accompanied by the disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential , phosphatidylserine externalization and internucleosomal dna fragmentation .
our results suggest that pterostilbene could serve as a potential additional chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of leukemia .
context:the ubiquitin-proteasome system and macroautophagy are two major pathways for intracellular protein degradation .
emerging lines of evidence have shown that blockade of ubiquitin-proteasome system by proteasome inhibitors activates macroautophagy.objective:the purpose of this study was to determine the involvement of autophagy essential gene beclin 1 in cytotoxicity of thyroid cancer cells mediated by proteasome inhibitors.design:autophagy was measured by acidic-trophic dye staining and egf-lc3 distribution using fluorescence microscopy , as well as lc3-ii transition using western blot .
to ascertain the effect of beclin 1 , cells were transfected with beclin 1 plasmid or shrna against beclin 1 .
cell viability and apoptotic cells were measured using mtt assay and flow cytometry , respectively.results:proteasome inhibitors decreased beclin 1 expression .
in addition , treatment with pi3k inhibitors 3-ma or wortmannin , as well as knockdown of beclin 1 expression , was unable to affect autophagic responses mediated by proteasome inhibitors .
overexpression of beclin 1 enhanced proteasome inhibitor-mediated cytotoxicity of thyroid cancer cells via suppression of survivin.conclusions:proteasome inhibitors cause beclin 1-independent macroautophagic responses of thyroid cancer cells in a beclin 1-independent manner .
beclin 1 possesses autophagy-independent antitumoral effects upon exposure of thyroid cancer cells to proteasome inhibitors .
kaposi sarcoma is the most common neoplasm caused by kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( kshv ) .
it is prevalent among the elderly in the mediterranean , inhabitants of sub-saharan africa , and immunocompromised individuals such as organ transplant recipients and aids patients .
current treatments for kaposi sarcoma can inhibit tumor growth but are not able to eliminate kshv from the host .
when the host's immune system weakens , kshv begins to replicate again , and active tumor growth ensues .
new therapeutic approaches are needed .
cannabidiol ( cbd ) , a plant-derived cannabinoid , exhibits promising antitumor effects without inducing psychoactive side effects .
cbd is emerging as a novel therapeutic for various disorders , including cancer .
in this study , we investigated the effects of cbd both on the infection of endothelial cells ( ecs ) by kshv and on the growth and apoptosis of kshv-infected ecs , an in vitro model for the transformation of normal endothelium to kaposi sarcoma .
while cbd did not affect the efficiency with which kshv infected ecs , it reduced proliferation and induced apoptosis in those infected by the virus .
cbd inhibited the expression of kshv viral g protein-coupled receptor ( vgpcr ) , its agonist , the chemokine growth-regulated protein  ( gro- ) , vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 ( vegfr-3 ) , and the vegfr-3 ligand , vascular endothelial growth factor c ( vegf-c ) .
this suggests a potential mechanism by which cbd exerts its effects on kshv-infected endothelium and supports the further examination of cbd as a novel targeted agent for the treatment of kaposi sarcoma .
a predictive mathematical model of the transition from the g2 phase in the cell cycle to mitosis ( m ) was constructed from the known interactions of the proteins that are thought to play significant roles in the g2 to m transition as well as the dna damage- induced g2 checkpoint .
the model simulates the accumulation of active cyclin b1/cdk1 ( mpf ) complexes in the nucleus to activate mitosis , the inhibition of this process by dna damage , and transport of component proteins between cytoplasm and nucleus .
interactions in the model are based on activities of individual phospho-epitopes and binding sites of proteins involved in g2/m .
because tracking phosphoforms leads to combinatorial explosion , we employ a rule-based approach using the bionetgen software .
the model was used to determine the effects of depletion or over-expression of selected proteins involved in the regulation of the g2 to m transition in the presence and absence of dna damage .
depletion of plk1 delayed mitotic entry and recovery from the dna damage-induced g2 arrest and over-expression of mpf attenuated the dna damage-induced g2 delay .
the model recapitulates the g2 delay observed in the biological response to varying levels of a dna damage signal .
the model produced the novel prediction that depletion of pkmyt1 results in an abnormal biological state in which g2 cells with dna damage accumulate inactive nuclear mpf .
such a detailed model may prove useful for predicting dna damage g2 checkpoint function in cancer and , therefore , sensitivity to cancer therapy .
-tocotrienol and sesamin are phytochemicals that display potent anticancer activity .
since sesamin inhibits the metabolic degradation of tocotrienols , studies were conducted to determine if combined treatment with sesamin potentiates the antiproliferative effects of -tocotrienol on neoplastic mouse ( +sa ) and human ( mcf-7 and mda-mb-231 ) mammary cancer cells .
results showed that treatment with -tocotrienol or sesamin alone induced a significant dose-responsive growth inhibition , whereas combination treatment with these agents synergistically inhibited the growth of +sa , mcf-7 and mda-mb-231 mammary cancer cells , while similar treatment doses were found to have little or no effect on normal ( mouse cl-s1 and human mcf-10a ) mammary epithelial cell growth or viability .
however , sesamin synergistic enhancement of -tocotrienol-induced anticancer effects was not found to be mediated from a reduction in -tocotrienol metabolism .
rather , combined treatment with subeffective doses of -tocotrienol and sesamin was found to induce g1 cell cycle arrest , and a corresponding decrease in cyclin d1 , cdk2 , cdk4 , cdk6 , phospho-rb , and e2f1 levels , and increase in p27 and p16 levels .
additional studies showed that the antiproliferative effect of combination treatment did not initiate apoptosis or result in a decrease in mammary cancer cell viability .
taken together , these findings indicate that the synergistic antiproliferative action of combined -tocotrienol and sesamin treatment in mouse and human mammary cancer cells is cytostatic , not cytotoxic , and results from g1 cell cycle arrest .
bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) , used to treat severe hematological malignancies , often leads to potentially fatal acute graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) , despite attempts for better matching and/or use of immune suppressive agents .
we reported that embryo-derived preimplantation-factor plays a determining role in developing maternal/host tolerance towards the semi/allogenic embryo and regulating systemic immune response .
synthetic pif ( pif ) treatment is effective preventing immune attack in non-pregnant models of autoimmunity .
herein , we test pif ability to prevent acute gvhd development in semi or totally allogenic murine models .
we examine pif's regulatory effect in vivo and in vitro , to control deleterious gvhd while maintaining its ability to preserve beneficial graft vs. leukemia ( gvl effect ) .
bone marrow and spleen cells from c57bl/6 donors were transplanted to semi-allogenic ( c57bl/6balb/c ) f1 or allogenic ( balb/c ) recipients , and then treated with pif1mg/kg/day/2weeks .
short-term pif administration reduced acute gvhd in both models and increased survival for up to four months after semi-(or totally ) allogenic bmt .
the obtained effect was coupled with lessened skin ( semi-allogenic ) and decreased liver inflammation ( both models ) as well as reduced colon ulceration ( allogenic ) .
both gvhd associated cytokines and chemokines gene expression were decreased in the liver .
pif further lowered circulating interleukin-17 , but not interferon- levels .
pif treatment was demonstrated in vivo and in vitro to lead to decreased inos expression and in lps-activated macrophages to lower nitric oxide secretion .
significantly , pif did not impair the beneficial gvl effect in the b-cell leukemia model .
pif primarily acts by inducing regulatory phenotype on monocytes/apc , which controls t-cell proliferation .
overall our data demonstrates that pif protects against semi/allogenic gvhd long-term by reducing both target organ and systemic inflammation and by lowering oxidative stress , all while preserving the beneficial gvl effect .
there are many growth factors influencing the expansion of multiple myeloma ( mm ) .
angiogenesis is a process that may enhance mm growth , in various manners .
among them , insulin-like growth factor-1 ( igf-1 ) is a major factor , acting in many levels .
the aim of the study was to measure serum levels of igf-1 in newly diagnosed mm patients and to correlate them with clinical stage of the disease and with markers of angiogenesis , such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) , hepatocyte growth factor ( hgf ) , and interleukin-6 and 15 ( il-6 and il-15 ) .
serum levels of the above factors were measured , by elisa , in 57 newly diagnosed mm patients and in 20 healthy controls .
there was no difference in serum levels of igf-1 in mm patients and in controls , contrary to angiogenic factors , which were higher in mm patients ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
similarly , igf-1 did not correlate with clinical stage of the disease nor the other angiogenic factors , which also correlated with each other ( p &lt ; 0.001 ) .
serum igf-1 concentrations are not influenced in mm patients .
therefore , although it is a proliferation cytokine , it cannot be used as marker of disease activity .
dna damage signaling and repair take place in a chromatin context .
consequently , chromatin-modifying enzymes , including adenosine triphosphate-dependent chromatin remodeling enzymes , play an important role in the management of dna double-strand breaks ( dsbs ) .
here , we show that the p400 atpase is required for dna repair by homologous recombination ( hr ) .
indeed , although p400 is not required for dna damage signaling , dna dsb repair is defective in the absence of p400 .
we demonstrate that p400 is important for hr-dependent processes , such as recruitment of rad51 to dsb ( a key component of hr ) , homology-directed repair , and survival after dna damage .
strikingly , p400 and rad51 are present in the same complex and both favor chromatin remodeling around dsbs .
altogether , our data provide a direct molecular link between rad51 and a chromatin remodeling enzyme involved in chromatin decompaction around dna dsbs .
abstract : background : survivin , a member of the family of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins , functions as a key regulator of mitosis and programmed cell death .
ym155 , a novel molecular targeted agent , suppresses survivin , which is overexpressed in many tumor types .
the aim of this study was to determine the antitumor activity of ym155 in sk-nep-1 cells .
methods : sk-nep-1 cell growth in vitro and in vivo was assessed by mtt and nude mice experiments .
annexin v/propidium iodide staining followed by flow cytometric analysis was used to detect apoptosis in cell culture .
then gene expression profile of tumor cells treated with ym155 was analyzed with real-time pcr arrays .
we then analyzed the expression data with mev ( multi experiment view ) cluster software .
datasets representing genes with altered expression profile derived from cluster analyses were imported into the ingenuity pathway analysis tool .
results : ym155 treatment resulted in inhibition of cell proliferation of sk-nep-1cells in a dose-dependent manner .
annexin v assay , cell cycle , and activation of caspase-3 demonstrates that ym155 induced apoptosis in sk-nep-1 cells .
ym155 significantly inhibited growth of sk-nep-1 xenografts ( ym155 5 mg/kg : 1.45 +/- 0.77 cm3 ; ym155 10 mg/kg : 0.95 +/- 0.55 cm3 ) compared to dmso group ( dmso : 3.70 +/- 2.4 cm3 ) or pbs group cells ( pbs : 3.78 +/- 2.20 cm3 , anova p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
ym155 treatment decreased weight of tumors ( ym155 5 mg/kg : 1.05 +/- 0.24 g ; ym155 10 mg/kg : 0.72 +/- 0.17 g ) compared to dmso group ( dmso : 2.06 +/- 0.38 g ) or pbs group cells ( pbs : 2.36 +/- 0.43 g , anova p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
real-time pcr array analysis showed between test group and control group there are 32 genes significantly up-regulated and 54 genes were significantly down-regulated after ym155 treatment .
ingenuity pathway analysis ( ipa ) showed cell death was the highest rated network with 65 focus molecules and the significance score of 44 .
the ipa analysis also groups the differentially expressed genes into biological mechanisms that are related to cell death , cellular function maintenance , cell morphology , carbohydrate metabolism and cellular growth and proliferation .
death receptor signaling ( 3.87e-19 ) , tnfr1 signaling , induction of apoptosis by hiv1 , apoptosis signaling and molecular mechanisms of cancer came out to be the top four most significant pathways .
ipa analysis also showed top molecules up-regulated were bbc3 , birc3 , birc8 , bnip1 , casp7 , casp9 , cd5 , cdkn1a , cebpg and col4a3 , top molecules down-regulated were znf443 , utp11l , tp73 , tnfsf10 , tnfrsf1b , tnfrsf25 , tiaf1 , stk17a , sst and spp1 , upstream regulator were nr3c1 , tp53 , dexamethasone , tnf and akt .
conclusions : the present study demonstrates that ym155 treatment resulted in apoptosis and inhibition of cell proliferation of sk-nep-1cells .
ym155 had significant role and little side effect in the treatment of sk-nep-1 xenograft tumors .
real-time pcr array analysis firstly showed expression profile of genes dyes-regulated after ym155 treatment .
ipa analysis also represents new molecule mechanism of ym155 treatment , such as nr3c1 and dexamethasone may be new target of ym155 .
and our results may provide new clues of molecular mechanism of apoptosis induced by ym155 .
we report a case of recurrent gastric cancer successfully treated by a combination of cpt-11 and cddp as the third- line chemotherapy .
a 78-year-old man with advanced gastric cancer underwent a curative distal gastrectomy .
three years later , the tumor marker level began to rise and computed tomography ( ct ) revealed lymph node metastasis invading the pancreas resulting in pancreatic duct dilatation .
s-1 treatment was initiated but was discontinued because of a systemic exanthem .
paclitaxel was administrated as secondary chemotherapy .
but , after 2 courses , a further increase in the tumor marker level and portal vein invasion were observed .
combination therapy of cpt-11 and cddp was administered as the third-line chemotherapy .
after 3 courses , the tumor marker level normalized , tumor size decreased , and the invasion was eliminated .
third-line chemotherapy against recurrent gastric cancer should be considered if patient performance status ( ps ) is maintained .
vaccination is , in theory , a safe and effective approach for controlling disseminated or metastatic cancer due to the specificity of the mammalian immune system , yet its success in the clinic has been hampered thus far by the problem of immune tolerance to tumor self-antigen .
here we describe a dna vaccination strategy that is able to control cancer by overcoming immune tolerance to tumor self-antigen .
we engineered a dna construct encoding a dimeric form of a secreted single chain trimer of major histocompatibility complex class i heavy chain , 2-microglobulin , and peptide antigen linked to immunoglobulin g ( sct-ag/igg ) .
the chimeric protein was able to bind to antigen-specific cd8+ t cells with nearly 100% efficiency and strongly induce their activation and proliferation .
in addition , the chimeric protein was able to coat professional antigen-presenting cells through the fc receptor to activate antigen-specific cd8+ t cells .
furthermore , intradermal vaccination with dna encoding sct-ag/igg could generate significant numbers of cytotoxic effector t cells against tumor self-antigen and leads to successful therapeutic outcomes in a preclinical model of metastatic melanoma .
our data suggest that the dna vaccine strategy described in the current study is able to break immune tolerance against endogenous antigen and result in potent therapeutic antitumor effects .
such strategy may be used in other antigenic systems for the control of infections and/or cancers .
abstract purpose : cell death is one of the most important endpoints of radiosensitivity .
the tumor suppressor p53 participates not only in regulation of apoptosis , but also in autophagy mechanism .
in this study , h1299-p53 ( with wild-type p53 ) and h1299-175h ( with mutant 175h ) were used , and the effects of p53 on radiosensitivity were analyzed .
methods : cell models with different p53 status were established by gene engineering , and cell viability was examined by colony formation assay , and cell counting kit-8 ( cck-8 ) , 3-methyladenine , and z-vad were used to block autophagy and apoptosis , respectively .
western blot was used to detect protein expression ; monodansylcadaverine ( mdc ) staining was used to analyze autophagy rate ; dapi/propidium iodide ( pi ) staining and flow cytometry were used to assess apoptosis and necrosis .
results : in parental h1299 , h1299-p53 , and h1299-175h cells , radiosensitivity exhibited different by colony formation and cck-8 assay ( d0 : 1.764 gy , 1.407 gy and 1.695 gy ; dq : 2.977 gy , 1.199 gy and 2.312 gy in turn ) .
the radiosensitization of p53 was associated with the increase of mdm2 and p21 expression .
the ionizing radiation ( ir)-induced apoptosis was significant in h1299-p53 compared with in h1299 and h199-175h ( p&lt;0.05 ) by flow cytometry , and the expression of cleaved-caspase3 was increased in h1299-p53 cells .
while the ir-induced autophagy was significant in h1299 cells ( p&lt;0.01 ) and decreased in h1299-p53 and h1299-175h cells ( p&lt;0.01 ) by mdc staining , the expression of maplc3ii and beclin-1 increased in h1299 , but not in h1299-p53 and h199-175h cells .
the ir-induced cell survival was significantly increased by z-vad-fmk and decreased by 3ma in h1299-p53 cells ; ir- induced autophagy was significantly increased by z-vad-fmk in h1299-p53 cells ( p&lt;0.01 ) , but not changed in h1299 cells .
conclusion : p53 could regulate radiosensitivity by inhibiting autophagy and activating apoptosis ; autophagy provides a prosurvival mechanism , and p53 potently abrogated the ir-induced autophagy , while mutant 175h shown no effect on radiosensitivity , suggesting that individual treatment strategies should be based on p53 status in patients .
sunitinib is an oral multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor with antiangiogenic and antitumor activity that mainly targets vascular endothelial growth factor receptors , and recently , it has been shown to be an active agent for the treatment of malignant pheochromocytomas .
previously , we demonstrated that sunitinib directly inhibited mtorc1 signaling in rat pheochromocytoma pc12 cells .
although autophagy is a highly regulated cellular process , its relevance to cancer seems to be complicated .
it is of note that inhibition of mtorc1 is a prerequisite for autophagy induction .
indeed , direct mtorc1 inhibition initiates ulk1/2 autophosphorylation and subsequent atg13 and fip200 phosphorylation , inducing autophagy .
here , we demonstrated that sunitinib significantly increased the levels of lc3-ii , concomitant with a decrease of p62 in pc12 cells .
following sunitinib treatment , immunofluorescent imaging revealed a marked increased punctate lc3-ii distribution .
furthermore , atg13 knockdown significantly reduced its protein level , which in turn abolished sunitinib-induced autophagy .
moreover , inhibition of autophagy by sirnas targeting atg13 or by pharmacological inhibition with ammonium chloride , enhanced both sunitinib-induced apoptosis and anti-proliferation .
thus , sunitinib-induced autophagy is dependent on the suppression of mtorc1 signaling and the formation of ulk1/2-atg13-fip200 complexes .
inhibition of autophagy may be a promising therapeutic option for improving the anti-tumor effect of sunitinib .
abstract : background : the ubiquitin-proteasome system and macroautophagy ( hereafter referred to autophagy ) are two complementary pathways for protein degradation .
emerging evidence suggests that proteasome inhibition might be a promising approach for tumor therapy .
accumulating data suggest that autophagy is activated as a compensatory mechanism upon proteasome activity is impaired .
method : autophagy activation was measured using acridine orange staining and lc3 transition .
cell viability and apoptosis were measured using mtt assay and flow cytometry , respectively .
beclin 1 expression vectors or shrna against beclin 1 ( shbeclin 1 ) were transfected to investigate the role of beclin 1 in autophagy activation and cytotoxicity of ovarian cancer cells induced by proteasome inhibitors .
results : proteasome inhibitors suppressed proliferation and induced autophagy in ovarian cancer cells .
neither phosphoinositide 3-kinase ( pi3k ) inhibitors nor shrna against beclin 1 could abolish the formation of acidic vacuoles and the processing of lc3 induced by proteasome inhibitors .
moreover , beclin 1 overexpression enhanced anti-proliferative effects of proteasome inhibitors in ovarian cancer cells .
conclusions : for the first time , the current study demonstrated that proteasome inhibitors induced pi3k and beclin 1-independent autophagy in ovarian cancer cells .
in addition , this study revealed autophagy-independent tumor suppressive effects of beclin 1 in ovarian cancer cells .
recently , our group reported the discovery of three new withanolides , physangulidines a-c , from physalis angulata .
in this study , the biological effects of physangulidine a ( 1 ) , which was the most active and abundant of the three new constituents , are described .
it was found that 1 significantly reduces survival in clonogenic assays for two hormone-independent prostate cancer cell lines .
flow cytometry and confocal microscopy studies in du145 human prostate cancer cells indicated that 1 induces cell cycle arrest in the g(2)/m phase and causes defective mitosis .
it was determined also that 1 produces programed cell death by apoptosis , as evidenced by biochemical markers and distinct changes in cell morphology .
these results imply that the antimitotic and proapoptotic effects of 1 may contribute significantly to the biological activities and potential medicinal properties of its plant of origin .
the evidence that androgen blockade-resistant prostate cancer , termed castration resistant , remains androgen receptor ( ar ) dependent is compelling .
ar is re-activated through multiple mechanisms including expression of constitutively active splice variants that lack hormone binding domains ( hbds ) .
this highlights need to develop therapies that target regions other than the hbd .
because the p160 coactivators interact most strongly with the amino-terminus of ar , we examined the consequences of disrupting this interaction .
we identified two overlapping src-1 peptides that interact with ar , but not with progesterone receptor .
these peptides reduce ar and ar variant ar-v7 dependent induction of an ar responsive reporter .
using mammalian two hybrid assays , we found that the peptides interrupt the ar/src-1 , ar/src-2 and ar n/c interactions , but not src-1/carm-1 interactions .
consistent with the src-1 dependence of induced , but not repressed genes , in lncap cells , the peptides inhibited hormone dependent induction of endogenous target genes including psa and tmprss2 , but did not block ar dependent repression of ugt2b17 or inhibit vitamin d receptor activity .
simultaneous detection of src-1 peptides and psa by double immunofluorescence in transfected lncap cells clearly demonstrated a strong reduction in psa levels in cells expressing the peptides .
the peptides also inhibited the ar dependent expression of psa in castration resistant c4-2 cells .
moreover they inhibited androgen dependent proliferation of lncap cells and proliferation of c4-2 cells in androgen depleted medium without affecting ar negative pc-3 cells .
thus , the p160 coactivator binding site is a novel potential therapeutic target to inhibit ar activity .
aim : to explore the inhibitory effect of sulfated polysaccharide from masson pine ( pinus massoniana ) pollen ( sppm60 ) on g(2)/m phase of human liver cancer hepg2 cells and its mechanism .
methods : the proliferation rate of hepg2 cells was evaluated by methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium ( mtt ) colorimetric assay .
the cycles of hepg2 cells were measured by flow cytometry when 200g/ml concentration of sppm60 was adopted , the expression of the genes related to cell cycle was detected by real-time pcr .
results : sppm60 inhibited the proliferation of hepg2 cells and the inhibition rate was elevated with increase of sppm60 concentration .
after treatment with 200g/ml of sppm60 , the percentage of s phase cells was decreased , but that of g(2)/m phase was significantly increased ( 72h vs control : 32.960.33% vs 18.590.04% , 3.440.05% vs 18.300.08% , p&lt;0.01 ) .
the results of real-time pcr showed that sppm60 could down-regulate the mrna levels of cdk1 and cyclinb ( p&lt;0.01 ) , and up-regulate the expression of p53 and p21 ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
conclusion : sppm60 causes arrest of hepg2 cells at g(2)/m phase , and the mechanism is related to the down-regulation of cdk1 and cyclinb and up-regulation of p53 and p21 expression .
micrornas ( mirnas ) are involved in cancer development and progression , acting as tumor suppressors or oncogenes .
in this study , mirna profiling was performed on 10 paired bladder cancer ( bc ) tissues using 20 genechiptm mirna array , and 10 differentially expressed mirnas were identified in bc and adjacent noncancerous tissues of any disease stage/grade .
after validated on expanded cohort of 67 paired bc tissues and 10 human bc cell lines by qrt-pcr , it was found that mir-100 was down-regulated most significantly in cancer tissues .
ectopic restoration of mir-100 expression in bc cells suppressed cell proliferation and motility , induced cell-cycle arrest in vitro , and inhibited tumorigenesis in vivo both in subcutaneous and intravesical passage .
bioinformatic analysis showed that mtor gene was a direct target of mir-100. sirna-mediated mtor knockdown phenocopied the effect of mir-100 in bc cell lines .
in addition , the cancerous metastatic nude mouse model established on the basis of primary bc cell lines suggested that mir-100/mtor regulated cell motility and was associated with tumor metastasis .
both mtor and p70s6k ( downstream messenger ) presented higher expression levels in distant metastatic foci such as in liver and kidney metastases than in primary tumor .
taken together , mir-100 may act as a tumor suppressor in bc , and reintroduction of this mature mirna into tumor tissue may prove to be a therapeutic strategy by reducing the expression of target genes .
diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma ( dipg ) is a fatal pediatric disease .
thus far no therapeutic agent has proven beneficial in the treatment of this malignancy .
hence , conventional dna-damaging radiotherapy ( rt ) remains the standard treatment , providing transient neurological improvement without improving probability of overall survival .
during rt , wee1 kinase controls the g2 cell cycle checkpoint allowing for repair of irradiation ( ir)-induced dna damage .
here we show that wee1 kinase is one of the highest overexpressed kinases in primary dipg tissues as compared to matching non-neoplastic brain tissues .
inhibition of wee1 by mk-1775 treatment of dipg cells inhibited the ir-induced wee1-mediated phosphorylation of cdc2 , resulting in reduced g2/m arrest and decreased cell viability .
finally , we demonstrate that mk-1775 enhances the radiation response of e98-fluc-mcherry dipg mouse xenografts .
altogether , these results show that inhibition of wee1 kinase in conjunction with rt holds potential as a therapeutic approach for the treatment of dipg .
objectives : cigarette smoking is a major risk factor for pancreatic cancer ( paca ) .
however , the mechanisms of smoking-induced paca remain unknown .
here we investigated the effect of smoking compounds on cell death pathways in pancreatic ductal cells , precursors of paca .
methods : human pancreatic ductal cells ( hpde6-c7 ) were cultured with cigarette smoke extract ( cse ) or smoking compound 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone ( nnk ) .
apoptosis and autophagy were assessed by dna fragmentation and immunofluorescence , respectively .
results : exposure to cse or nnk decreased dna fragmentation and up-regulated bclxl .
akt kinase was activated by smoking compounds through reactive oxygen species-dependent mechanism .
specifically , akt activation was prevented by inhibition of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide oxidase .
molecular or pharmacologic inhibitions of akt prevented the antiapoptotic effect of smoking compounds .
smoking compounds stimulated rapid ( 1 hour ) and transient activation of 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase and formation of autophagic vacuoles , indicating stimulation of autophagy .
repeated exposure to cse/nnk ( 48 hours or longer ) abolished the early activation of autophagic markers .
inhibition of akt prevented the antiautophagic effect of long exposure to smoking compounds , indicating that smoking-induced late activation of akt prevents autophagy .
conclusions : long exposure of pancreatic ductal cells to smoking compounds inhibited apoptosis and autophagy .
the results revealed a central role for akt kinase in mediating key procarcinogenic effects of smoking compounds .
most hepatocellular carcinomas ( hcc ) develop in the context of severe liver fibrosis and cirrhosis caused by chronic liver inflammation , which also results in accumulation of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) .
in this study , we examined whether the stress-activated protein kinase p38 ( mapk14 ) controls ros metabolism and development of fibrosis and cancer in mice given thioacetamide to induce chronic liver injury .
liver-specific p38 ablation was found to enhance ros accumulation , which appears to be exerted through the reduced expression of antioxidant protein hsp25 ( hspb1 ) , a mouse homolog of hsp27 .
its reexpression in p38-deficient liver prevents ros accumulation and thioacetamide-induced fibrosis. p38 deficiency increased expression of sox2 , a marker for cancer stem cells and the liver oncoproteins c-jun ( jun ) and gankyrin ( psmd10 ) and led to enhanced thioacetamide-induced hepatocarcinogenesis .
the upregulation of sox2 and c-jun was prevented by administration of the antioxidant butylated hydroxyanisole .
intriguingly , the risk of human hcc recurrence is positively correlated with ros accumulation in liver .
thus , p38 and its target hsp25/hsp27 appear to play a conserved and critical hepatoprotective function by curtailing ros accumulation in liver parenchymal cells engaged in oxidative metabolism of exogenous chemicals .
augmented oxidative stress of liver parenchymal cells may explain the close relationship between liver fibrosis and hepatocarcinogenesis .
each year , more than 700,000 people undergo cancer surgery in the united states .
however , more than 40% of those patients develop recurrences and have a poor outcome .
traditionally , the medical community has assumed that recurrent tumors arise from selected tumor clones that are refractory to therapy .
however , we found that tumor cells have few phenotypical differences after surgery .
thus , we propose an alternative explanation for the resistance of recurrent tumors .
surgery promotes inhibitory factors that allow lingering immunosuppressive cells to repopulate small pockets of residual disease quickly .
recurrent tumors and draining lymph nodes are infiltrated with m2 ( cd11b(+)f4/80(hi)cd206(hi) and cd11b(+)f4/80(hi)cd124(hi) ) macrophages and cd4(+)foxp3(+) regulatory t cells .
this complex network of immunosuppression in the surrounding tumor microenvironment explains the resistance of tumor recurrences to conventional cancer vaccines despite small tumor size , an intact antitumor immune response , and unaltered cancer cells .
therapeutic strategies coupling antitumor agents with inhibition of immunosuppressive cells potentially could impact the outcomes of more than 250,000 people each year .
chromosomal dna must be in single-strand form for important transactions such as replication , transcription , and recombination to occur .
the single-strand dna ( ssdna ) is more prone to damage than double-strand dna ( dsdna ) , due to greater exposure of chemically reactive moieties in the nitrogenous bases .
thus , there can be agents that damage regions of ssdna in vivo while being inert toward dsdna .
to assess the potential hazard posed by such agents , we devised an ssdna-specific mutagenesis reporter system in budding yeast .
the reporter strains bear the cdc13-1 temperature-sensitive mutation , such that shifting to 37c results in telomere uncapping and ensuing 5 ' to 3 ' enzymatic resection .
this exposes the reporter region , containing three closely-spaced reporter genes , as a long 3 ' ssdna overhang .
we validated the ability of the system to detect mutagenic damage within ssdna by expressing a modified human single-strand specific cytosine deaminase , apobec3g .
apobec3g induced a high density of substitutions at cytosines in the ssdna overhang strand , resulting in frequent , simultaneous inactivation of two reporter genes .
we then examined the mutagenicity of sulfites , a class of reactive sulfur oxides to which humans are exposed frequently via respiration and food intake .
sulfites , at a concentration similar to that found in some foods , induced a high density of mutations , almost always as substitutions at cytosines in the ssdna overhang strand , resulting in simultaneous inactivation of at least two reporter genes .
furthermore , sulfites formed a long-lived adducted 2'-deoxyuracil intermediate in dna that was resistant to excision by uracil-dna n-glycosylase .
this intermediate was bypassed by error-prone translesion dna synthesis , frequently involving pol  , during repair synthesis .
our results suggest that sulfite-induced lesions in dna can be particularly deleterious , since cells might not possess the means to repair or bypass such lesions accurately .
the atm/atr dna damage checkpoint functions in the maintenance of genetic stability and some missense variants of the atm gene have been shown to confer a moderate increased risk of prostate cancer .
however , whether inactivation of this checkpoint contributes directly to prostate specific cancer predisposition is still unknown .
here , we show that exposure of non-malignant prostate epithelial cells ( hpr-1ar ) to androgen led to activation of the atm/atr dna damage response and induction of cellular senescence .
notably , knockdown of the atm gene expression in hpr-1ar cells can promote androgen-induced tmprss2 : erg rearrangement , a prostate-specific chromosome translocation frequently found in prostate cancer cells .
intriguingly , unlike the non-malignant prostate epithelial cells , the atm/atr dna damage checkpoint appears to be defective in prostate cancer cells , since androgen treatment only induced a partial activation of the dna damage response .
this mechanism appears to preserve androgen induced autophosphorylation of atm and phosphorylation of h2ax , lesion processing and repair pathway yet restrain atm/chk1/chk2 and p53 signaling pathway .
our findings demonstrate that atm/atr inactivation is a crucial step in promoting androgen-induced genomic instability and prostate carcinogenesis .
prostate cancer is the most frequent and second most lethal cancer in men in the united states .
innate immunity and inflammation may increase the risk of prostate cancer .
to determine the role of innate immunity and inflammation in advanced prostate cancer , we investigated the association of 320 single nucleotide polymorphisms , located in 46 genes involved in this pathway , with disease risk using 494 cases with advanced disease and 536 controls from cleveland , ohio .
taken together , the whole pathway was associated with advanced prostate cancer risk ( p=0.02 ) .
two sub-pathways ( intracellular antiviral molecules and extracellular pattern recognition ) and four genes in these sub-pathways ( tlr1 , tlr6 , oas1 , and oas2 ) were nominally associated with advanced prostate cancer risk and harbor several snps nominally associated with advanced prostate cancer risk .
our results suggest that the innate immunity and inflammation pathway may play a modest role in the etiology of advanced prostate cancer through multiple small effects .
ulcerative colitis ( uc ) is a major form of chronic inflammation that can frequently progress to colon cancer .
several studies have demonstrated massive infiltration of neutrophils and macrophages into the lamina propria and submucosa in the progression of uc-associated colon carcinogenesis .
macrophages contribute to the development of colitis-associated colon cancer ( cac ) .
however , the role of neutrophils is not well understood .
to better understand the involvement of tumor-associated neutrophils ( tans ) in the regulation of cac , we used a mouse cac model produced by administering azoxymethane ( aom ) , followed by repeated dextran sulfate sodium ( dss ) ingestion .
this causes severe colonic inflammation and subsequent development of multiple tumors in mice colon .
we observed that colorectal mucosal inflammation became increasingly severe with aom and dss treatment .
macrophages infiltrated the lamina propria and submucosa , together with a marked increase in neutrophil infiltration .
the chemokine cxcl2 increased in the lamina propria and submucosal regions of the colons of the treated mice , together with the infiltration of neutrophils expressing cxcr2 , a specific receptor for cxcl2 .
this process was followed by neoplastic transformation .
after aom and dss treatment , the mice showed enhanced production of metalloproteinase ( mmp)-9 and neutrophil elastase ( ne ) , accompanied by excessive vessel generation and cell proliferation .
moreover , cxcl2 promoted neutrophil recruitment and induced neutrophils to express mmp-9 and ne in vitro .
furthermore , administration of neutrophil-neutralizing antibodies after the last dss cycle markedly reduced the number and size of tumors and decreased the expression of cxcr2 , cxcl2 , mmp-9 , and ne .
these observations indicate a crucial role for tans in the initiation and progression of cac and suggest that the cxcl2-cxcr2 axis might be useful in reducing the risk of uc-associated colon cancer .
cellular senescence is considered as a tumor suppressive mechanism .
recent evidence indicates however that senescent cells secrete various growth factors and cytokines , some of which may paradoxically promote cancer progression .
this phenomenon termed senescence-associated secretory phenotype ( sasp ) must be inhibited in order for anti-proliferative agents to be effective .
the present study was designed to determine whether the -catenin destruction complex ( bcdc ) , known to integrate the action of various growth factors and cytokines , would represent a suitable target to inhibit the activity of sasp components .
for this , we carried out experiments to determine the effect of drug-induced senescence on secretion of sasp , -catenin transactivation , and the relationship between these processes .
moreover , genetic and pharmacological approaches were used to define the implication of bcdc in mediating the effects of sasp components on cell migration and resistance to drugs .
the findings indicate that drug-induced senescence was associated with expression of various wnt ligands in addition to previously known sasp components .
beta catenin transactivation and expression of genes implicated in epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) also increased in response to drug-induced sasp .
these effects were prevented by pyrvinium , a recently described activator of bcdc .
pyrvinium also suppressed the effects of sasp on cell migration and resistance to doxorubicin .
together , these findings provide insights on the potential role of bcdc in mediating the effects of drug-induced sasp on cancer cell invasion and resistance to therapy , and suggest that targeting this pathway may represent an effective approach to enhance the activity of current and prospective anti-cancer therapeutics .
binding within or nearby target genes involved in cell proliferation and survival enables the p53 tumor suppressor gene to regulate their transcription and cell-cycle progression .
using genome-wide chromatin-binding profiles , we describe binding of p53 also to regions located distantly from any known p53 target gene .
interestingly , many of these regions possess conserved p53-binding sites and all known hallmarks of enhancer regions .
we demonstrate that these p53-bound enhancer regions ( p53bers ) indeed contain enhancer activity and interact intrachromosomally with multiple neighboring genes to convey long-distance p53-dependent transcription regulation .
furthermore , p53bers produce , ina p53-dependent manner , enhancer rnas ( ernas ) that are required for efficient transcriptional enhancement of interacting target genes and induction of a p53-dependent cell-cycle arrest .
thus , our results ascribe transcription enhancement activity to p53 with the capacity to regulate multiple genes from a single genomic binding site .
moreover , erna production from p53bers is required for efficient p53 transcription enhancement .
jaceosidin , a flavonoid derived from artemisia princeps ( japanese mugwort ) , has been shown to inhibit the growth of several human cancer cells , however , the exact mechanism for the cytotoxic effect of jaceosidin is not completely understood .
in this study , we investigated the molecular mechanism involved in the antiproliferative effect of jaceosidin in human endometrial cancer cells .
we demonstrated that jaceosidin is a more potent inhibitor of cell growth than cisplatin in human endometrial cancer cells .
in contrast , jaceosidin-induced cytotoxicity in normal endometrial cells was lower than that observed for cisplatin .
jaceosidin induced g2/m phase cell cycle arrest and modulated the levels of cyclin b and p-cdc2 in hec1a cells .
knockdown of p21 using specific sirnas partially abrogated jaceosidin-induced cell growth inhibition .
additional mechanistic studies revealed that jaceosidin treatment resulted in an increase in phosphorylation of cdc25c and atm-chk1/2 .
ku55933 , an atm inhibitor , reversed jaceosidin-induced cell growth inhibition , in part .
moreover , jaceosidin treatment resulted in phosphorylation of erk , and pretreatment with the erk inhibitor , pd98059 , attenuated cell growth inhibition by jaceosidin .
these data suggest that jaceosidin , isolated from japanese mugwort , modulates the erk/atm/chk1/2 pathway , leading to inactivation of the cdc2-cyclin b1 complex , followed by g2/m cell cycle arrest in endometrial cancer cells .
ampk is a metabolic sensor that helps maintain cellular energy homeostasis .
despite evidence linking ampk with tumor suppressor functions , the role of ampk in tumorigenesis and tumor metabolism isunknown .
here we show that ampk negatively regulates aerobic glycolysis ( the warburg effect ) in cancer cells and suppresses tumor growth invivo .
genetic ablation of the 1 catalytic subunit of ampk accelerates myc-induced lymphomagenesis .
inactivation of ampk in both transformed and nontransformed cells promotes a metabolic shift to aerobic glycolysis , increased allocation of glucose carbon into lipids , and biomass accumulation .
these metabolic effects require normoxic stabilization of the hypoxia-inducible factor-1 ( hif-1 ) , as silencing hif-1 reverses the shift to aerobic glycolysis and the biosynthetic and proliferative advantages conferred by reduced ampk signaling .
together our findings suggest that ampk activity opposes tumor development and that its loss fosters tumor progression in part by regulating cellular metabolic pathways that support cell growth and proliferation .
indolylmaleimides display a broad spectrum of biological activity and offer great opportunity to influence several aspects of cell fate , as proliferation and differentiation .
in this study we describe the effect of pda-66 , a newly synthesised indolylmaleimide , showing a strong dose dependent anti-proliferative effect on immortalised human progenitor and cancer cells .
we demonstrated a highly depolymerizing effect on in vitro tubulin assembly and conclude that pda-66 acts as microtubule destabilising agent .
in addition we found that pda-66 induces mitotic arrest of cells in the g(2)/m phase of the cell cycle .
subsequently cells undergo apoptosis , indicating the major mechanism of the anti-proliferative effect .
to prove a potential anti-cancer activity of pda-66 we examined the effect of pda-66 on human sh-sy5y neuroblastoma and a-459 lung cancer cells , showing a significant reduction in cancer cell proliferation in a dose dependent manner .
thus pda-66 is a new anti-mitotic compound with an indole-core with the potential to be used for cancer therapy .
in human epithelial cancers , the microrna ( mirna ) mir-30d is amplified with high frequency and serves as a critical oncomir by regulating metastasis , apoptosis , proliferation , and differentiation .
autophagy , a degradation pathway for long-lived protein and organelles , regulates the survival and death of many cell types .
increasing evidence suggests that autophagy plays an important function in epithelial tumor initiation and progression .
using a combined bioinformatics approach , gene set enrichment analysis and mirna target prediction , we found that mir-30d might regulate multiple genes in the autophagy pathway including becn1 , bnip3l , atg12 , atg5 , atg2 .
our further functional experiments demonstrated that the expression of these core proteins in the autophagy pathway was directly suppressed by mir-30d in cancer cells .
finally , we showed that mir-30d regulated the autophagy process by inhibiting autophagosome formation and lc3b-i conversion to lc3b-ii .
taken together , our results provide evidence that the oncomir mir-30d impairs the autophagy process by targeting multiple genes in the autophagy pathway .
this result will contribute to understanding the molecular mechanism of mir-30d in tumorigenesis and developing novel cancer therapy strategy .
compound c , a well-known inhibitor of the intracellular energy sensor amp-activated protein kinase ( ampk ) , has been reported to cause apoptotic cell death in myeloma , breast cancer cells and glioma cells .
in this study , we have demonstrated that compound c not only induced autophagy in all tested skin cancer cell lines but also caused more apoptosis in p53 wildtype skin cancer cells than in p53-mutant skin cancer cells .
compound c can induce upregulation , phosphorylation and nuclear translocalization of the p53 protein and upregulate expression of p53 target genes in wildtype p53-expressing skin basal cell carcinoma ( bcc ) cells .
the changes of p53 status were dependent on dna damage which was caused by compound c induced reactive oxygen species ( ros ) generation and associated with activated ataxia-telangiectasia mutated ( atm ) protein .
using the wildtype p53-expressing bcc cells versus stable p53-knockdown bcc sublines , we present evidence that p53-knockdown cancer cells were much less sensitive to compound c treatment with significant g2/m cell cycle arrest and attenuated the compound c-induced apoptosis but not autophagy .
the compound c induced g2/m arrest in p53-knockdown bcc cells was associated with the sustained inactive tyr15 phosphor-cdc2 expression .
overall , our results established that compound c-induced apoptosis in skin cancer cells was dependent on the cell's p53 status .
bisphenol a ( bpa ) is one of the most prevalent chemicals in daily-use materials , therefore , human exposure to bpa is ubiquitous .
we found that low concentrations of bpa stimulate the spermatogonial gc-1 cells proliferation by g protein-coupled receptor 30 ( gpr30)-mediated epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr)-extracellular regulated kinase ( erk)-c-fos pathway .
however , through the same pathway gpr30 expression has been shown to be induced by egf , an egfr ligand .
thus , we want to know if low concentrations of bpa are able to induce the gpr30 expression and the possible mechanism(s) in gc-1 cells .
by transient transfection with expression plasmids , 10(-9)m bpa significantly transactivates the gpr30-5'-flanking region through activating the gpr30 , cgmp-dependent protein kinase ( pkg ) , estrogen receptor- ( er- ) , and efgr-erk pathways .
furthermore , an activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) site located within this region is found to be responsible for the transactivation of bpa .
expectedly , through the same pathways , bpa significantly induces the gene and protein expression of gpr30. c-fos is further observed to be strongly recruited to the ap-1 site in a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay and its dysfunction on the ap-1 site markedly suppresses the expression of gpr30 , p-erk1/2 , p-ser118-er- and cell proliferation by bpa .
our results demonstrate that a low-concentration bpa induces gpr30 expression through the gpr30-efgr-erk-c-fos , er- , and pkg pathways , presumably boosting the cells proliferation via a regulatory loop .
the present study provides a novel insight into the potential role of gpr30 in the initiation and progression of male germ cell cancer induced by environmentally relevant bpa .
nitric oxide ( no)-releasing non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( no-nsaids ) which have been synthesized to reduce gastro-intestinal and cardiovascular toxicities of nsaids , possess anti-proliferative , pro-apoptotic and anti-cancer activities .
here , we show that no-sulindac inhibited uvb-induced skin tumorigenesis in skh-1 hairless mice .
topical application of no-sulindac reduced tumor incidence , number ( p&lt;0.05 ) and volume ( p&lt;0.005 ) as compared to uvb ( alone)-irradiated vehicle-treated mice .
an increase in tunel-positive cells in skin lesions was accompanied by the enhanced bax:bcl-2 ratio .
the expression of pro-apoptotic bax was increased whereas anti-apoptotic bcl-2 reduced .
however , proliferation was identified as the major target of no-sulindac in this study .
a reduced expression of pcna and cyclin d1 associated with the dampening of cell cycle progression was observed .
the mechanism of this inhibition was related to the reduction in uvb-induced notch signaling pathway .
uvb-induced inflammatory responses were diminished by no-sulindac as observed by a remarkable reduction in the levels of phosphorylated map kinases erk1/2 , p38 and jnk1/2 .
in this regard , no-sulindac also inhibited nfb by enhancing ib as evidenced by the reduced expression of inos and cox-2 , the direct nfb transcription target proteins .
no-sulindac significantly diminished the progression of benign lesions to invasive carcinomas by suppressing the tumor aggressiveness and retarding epithelial-mesenchymal transition .
a marked decrease in the expression of mesenchymal markers such as fibronectin , n-cadherin , snai , slug and twist and an increase in epithelial cell polarity marker e-cadherin were noted in no-sulindac-treated tumors .
our data suggest that no-sulindac is a potent inhibitor of uvb-induced skin carcinogenesis and acts by targeting proliferation-regulatory pathways .
cells undergoing malignant transformation often exhibit a shift in cellular metabolism from oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis .
this glycolytic shift , called the warburg effect , provides a mechanistic basis for targeting glycolysis to suppress carcinogenesis through the use of dietary caloric restriction and energy restriction-mimetic agents ( erma ) .
we recently reported the development of a novel class of ermas that exhibits high potency in eliciting starvation-associated cellular responses and epigenetic changes in cancer cells though glucose uptake inhibition .
the lead erma in this class , osu-cg5 , decreases the production of atp and nadh in lncap prostate cancer cells .
in this study , we examined the effect of osu-cg5 on the severity of preneoplastic lesions in male transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate ( tramp ) mice .
daily oral treatment with osu-cg5 at 100 mg/kg from 6 to 10 weeks of age resulted in a statistically significant decrease in the weight of urogenital tract and microdissected dorsal , lateral , and anterior prostatic lobes relative to vehicle controls .
the suppressive effect of osu-cg5 was evidenced by marked decreases in ki67 immunostaining and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( pcna ) expression in the prostate .
osu-cg5 treatment was not associated with evidence of systemic toxicity .
microarray analysis indicated a central role for akt , and western blot analysis showed reduced phosphorylation and/or expression levels of akt , src , androgen receptor , and insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor in prostate lobes .
these findings support further investigation of osu-cg5 as a potential chemopreventive agent .
it is well established that hyperplasia and decreased apoptosis of airway smooth muscle cells ( asmcs ) play an important role in the asthmatic airway remodeling .
tumor suppressor pten gene with phosphatase activity plays an important regulatory role in embryonic development , cell proliferation , and apoptosis , cell cycle regulation , migration ( invasion ) of the cytoskeleton .
we hypotheses that pten gene could affect the growth and viability of asmcs through the regulation of pi3k/akt , mapk , and cell cycle-related gene expression .
we constructed a recombinant adenovirus to transfect asmcs .
cells were divided into the overexpression of pten gene group ( ad-pten-gfp ) , negative control group ( ad-gfp ) , and blank control group ( dmem ) .
the cell apoptosis of asmcs were evaluated by hoechst-33342 staining and pe-7aad double-labeled flow cytometry .
the cell cycle distribution was observed by flow cytometry with pi staining .
the expression of pten , p-akt , total-akt , p-erk1/2 , total-erk1/2 , cleaved-caspases-3 , caspases-9 , p21 , and cyclin d1 were tested by the western blotting .
our study revealed that overexpression of pten gene did not induce apoptosis of human asmcs cultured in vitro .
however , overexpression of pten inhibited proliferation of human asmcs cultured in vitro and was associated with downregulation of akt phosphorylation levels , while did not affect erk1/2 phosphorylation levels .
moreover , overexpression of pten could induce asmcs arrested in the g0/g1 phase through the downregulation of cyclin d1 and upregulation of p21 expressions .
in the present study , the question was addressed whether anthocyanins interfere with the topoisomerase i poison irinotecan in vivo .
in vivo complexes of enzyme to dna bioassay was used to detect irinotecan-induced stabilization of topoisomerase i/dna complexes and single cell gel electrophoresis to determine dna-strand-break induction in the colon of male wistar rats .
furthermore , analysis of anthocyanin concentrations in rat plasma and rat colon was included in the testing , demonstrating that anthocyanins reach the colon and the concentrations do not differ between rats that only received anthocyanins and the anthocyanin/irinotecan group .
blackberry extract was found to significantly reduce irinotecan-mediated topoisomerase i/dna cleavable complex formation .
overall , anthocyanins did not notably increase cleavable complex formation .
however , a significant increase of dna damage was shown after a single dose of irinotecan as well as the single compounds cyanidin ( cy ) and cyanidin-3-glucoside ( cy-3-g ) .
furthermore , a significant reduction of irinotecan-induced dna-strand breaks after a pretreatment with cy , cy-3-g and blackberry extract was observed .
thus , the question arises whether anthocyanin-rich preparations might interfere with chemotherapy or whether , due to low systemic bioavailability , the preparations might provide protective potential in the gastrointestinal tract .
peroxisome proliferator activated receptor  ( ppar ) , a subgroup of ligand-activated nuclear receptors , plays critical roles in cell cycle regulation , differentiation , apoptosis and invasion .
ppar is involved in tumorigenesis and is a potent target for cancer therapy .
ppar transactivation of klf4 has been demonstrated in various studies ; however , how ppar regulates klf4 expression is not clear .
in this study , we revealed that ppar regulates the expression of klf4 by binding directly to the ppar response element ( ppre ) within the klf4 promoter .
the ppre resided at -1657bp to -1669bp upstream of the klf4 atg codon , which is essential for the transactivation of tgz-induced klf4 expression .
furthermore , we found that stable silencing of klf4 obviously suppressed the g1/s arrest and anti-proliferation effects induced by ppar ligands .
taken together , our data indicated that upregulating klf4 upon ppar activation is mediated through ppre in klf4 promoter , thus providing further insights into ppar signal transduction pathway as well as a novel cancer therapeutic strategy .
splenic haemangiosarcomas ( hsas ) from 122 dogs were characterized and classified according to their patterns of growth , survival time post splenectomy , metastases and chemotherapy .
the most common pattern of growth was a mixture of cavernous , capillary and solid tumour tissue .
survival time post splenectomy was independent of the growth pattern ; however , it was influenced by chemotherapy and metastases .
immunohistochemical assessment of the expression of angiogenic factors ( fetal liver kinase-1 , angiopoietin-2 , angiopoietin receptor-2 and vascular endothelial growth factor a ) and conventional endothelial markers ( cd31 , factor viii-related antigen ) revealed variable expression , particularly in undifferentiated hsas .
therefore , a combination of endothelial markers should be used to confirm the endothelial origin of splenic tumours .
amp-activated protein kinase ( ampk ) has been implicated in anti-proliferative actions in a range of cell systems .
recently , it was observed that compound c , an inhibitor of ampk , also reduced the cell viability in human diploid fibroblasts ( hdfs ) .
compound c-induced growth arrest was associated with a decrease in the cell cycle regulatory proteins , such as proliferating cell nuclear antigen , phosphorylated prb , cyclin-dependent protein kinases ( cdk 2 and 4 ) , cyclins ( d and e ) , and the cdk inhibitors ( p21 , p16 , and p27 ) .
therefore , the present study examined the molecular mechanism of the antiproliferative effects of compound c. although compound c inhibited serum-induced phosphorylation of akt and its substrate , glycogen synthase kinase-3 , it did not affect the akt activity in vitro .
compound c significantly inhibited the receptor tyrosine phosphorylation and the activity of downstream signaling molecules , such as p85 phosphoinositide 3-kinase , phospholipase c-1 , and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 , induced by platelet-derived growth factor ( pdgf ) but not by epidermal growth factor- and insulin-like growth factor .
in vitro growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase activity profiling revealed the ic(50) for pdgf receptor- ( pdgfr ) to be 5.07 m , whereas the ic(50) for the epidermal growth factor receptor and insulin-like growth factor receptor was 100 m .
the inhibitory effect of compound c on pdgfr and akt was also observed in ampk(1)/(2)-knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts , indicating that its inhibitory effect is independent of the ampk activity .
the inhibitory effect of compound c on cell proliferation and pdgfr tyrosine phosphorylation was also demonstrated in various pdgfr-expressing cells , including mrc-5 , beas-2b , rat aortic vascular smooth muscle cells , and a172 glioblastoma cells .
these results indicate that compound c can be used as a potential antiproliferative agent for pdgf- or pdgfr-associated diseases , such as cancer , atherosclerosis , and fibrosis .
background o(6) -methylguanine-dna methyltransferase ( mgmt ) is a dna repair enzyme that can protect cells from carcinogenic effects of alkylating agents by removing adducts from the o(6) position of guanine .
evidences indicated that areca quid chewing may increase the risk of oral squamous cell carcinoma ( oscc ) .
this study was to investigate the role of mgmt expression in osccs and the normal oral tissues .
methods thirty-two osccs from areca quid chewers and ten normal oral tissue biopsy samples without areca quid chewing were analyzed by the immunohistochemistry for mgmt .
primary human oral keratinocytes ( hoks ) were challenged with arecoline , the major alkaloid of areca nut , by western blot .
nicotine , an important component of cigarette smoke , was added to find the possible regulatory mechanisms .
results significant association was observed between low mgmt expression and advanced clinical stage of osccs and lymph node metastasis ( p=0.03 ) .
mgmt expression was significantly higher in patients only chewing areca quid than patients both chewing areca quid and smoking ( p=0.028 ) .
arecoline was found to elevate mgmt expression in a dose- and time-dependent manner .
the addition of nicotine was found to enhance arecoline-induced mgmt expression .
conclusion our results indicate that mgmt could be used clinically as a predictive marker for tumor processing , the potential for lymph node metastasis as well as advanced clinical stage .
mgmt expression was significantly upregulated by arecoline in hoks .
nicotine has a synergistic effect of arecoline-induced mgmt expression .
the cigarette smoking may act synergistically in the pathogenesis of oscc in areca quid chewers via the upregulation of mgmt .
the alkbh family of proteins are highly expressed in various types of human cancer where they are involved in tumor growth and progression .
however , multiple isoforms of alkbh exist and the effect of individual isoforms on the development of urinary bladder cancer is unknown , particularly the molecular mechanisms involved in the progression from a noninvasive to invasive phenotype .
we examined the role and function of alkbh2 in human bladder cancer development in vitro and provide the first report that suppression of alkbh2 in a human urothelial carcinoma cell line , ku7 , reduced the expression of the transmembrane mucin protein , muc1 , and induced g1 cell cycle arrest .
moreover , reduction of alkbh2 suppressed epithelial to mesenchymal transition ( emt ) via increasing e-cadherin and decreasing vimentin expression .
transfection of muc1 sirna inhibited cell proliferation and emt to the same extent as alkbh2 gene silencing in vitro .
alkbh2 knockdown significantly suppressed muc1 expression and tumor volume of bladder cancers in vivo as assessed in an orthotopic mouse model using alkbh2 shrna transfected ku7 cells .
immunohistochemical examination showed high expression levels of alkbh2 in human urothelial carcinoma samples , especially in high-grade , superficially and deeply invasive carcinomas ( pt(1) and &gt;pt(2) ) , and in carcinoma in situ but not in normal urothelium .
this study demonstrates that alkbh2 is an upstream molecule of the oncoprotein , muc1 , and regulates cell cycle and emt , resulting in progression of urothelial carcinomas .
sonodynamic therapy ( sdt ) has shown great potential in target cancer therapy , but it induced cell death modes hasn't been fully investigated .
this study was to examine autophagic and apoptotic responses to protoporphyrin ix ( ppix ) mediated sdt in murine leukemia l1210 cells .
after sdt , the occurrence of autophagy was identified by morphological observation and biochemical analysis .
meanwhile , the mitochondria dependent apoptosis pathway was examined to participate in sdt induced cell death .
the relationship between autophagy and apoptosis was further investigated by applying pharmacological inhibition studies , which indicated that impairment of autophagy enhanced the anti-tumor effect of sdt through induction of apoptosis and necrosis , while caspase inhibition didn't affect autophagic vacuoles formation or protect sdt induced cytotoxicity .
the findings supported that autophagic vacuoles formed upstream and independently from caspase-dependent cell death .
additionally , the possible mechanism of sdt-induced autophagy was evaluated by measurement of ros ( reactive oxygen species ) formation .
result suggested ros play important role in initiating autophagy , possibly through the sono-damaged mitochondria being enclosed by autophagic vacuoles .
all together , these data indicate that autophagy may be cytoprotective in our experimental system , and point to an important insight into how autophagy inhibitors , in combination with sdt may contribute a regimen for cancer therapy .
colorectal cancer ( crc ) is one of the leading causes of cancer deaths in western countries .
a significant number of crc patients undergoing curatively intended surgery subsequently develop recurrence and die from the disease .
micrornas ( mirnas ) are aberrantly expressed in cancers and appear to have both diagnostic and prognostic significance .
in this study , we identified novel mirnas associated with recurrence of crc , and their possible mechanism of action .
taqman human microrna array set v2.0 was used to profile the expression of 667 mirnas in 14 normal colon mucosas and 46 microsatellite stable crc tumors .
four mirnas ( mir-362-3p , mir-570 , mir-148a* and mir-944 ) were expressed at a higher level in tumors from patients with no recurrence ( p &lt ; 0.015 ) , compared to tumors from patients with recurrence .
a significant association with increased disease free survival was confirmed for mir-362-3p in a second independent cohort of 43 crc patients , using single taqman microrna assays .
in vitro functional analysis showed that over-expression of mir-362-3p in colon cancer cell lines reduced cell viability , and proliferation mainly due to cell cycle arrest .
e2f1 , usf2 and ptpn1 were identified as potential mir-362-3p targets by mrna profiling of hct116 cells over-expressing mir-362-3p .
subsequently , these genes were confirmed as direct targets by luciferase reporter assays .
their knockdown in vitro phenocopied the effects of mir-362-3p over-expression .
we conclude that mir-362-3p may be a novel prognostic marker in crc , and hypothesize that the positive effects of augmented mir-362-3p expression may in part be mediated through the targets e2f1 , usf2 and ptpn1.  2012 wiley periodicals , inc .
dichlorvos , an organophosphate ( op ) , is known to cause oxidative stress in the central nervous system ( cns ) .
previously we have shown that dichlorvos treatment promoted the levels of proinflammatory molecules and ultimately induced apoptotic cell death in primary microglial cells .
here we studied the effect of dichlorvos on crucial cell cycle regulatory proteins and the dna damage sensor ataxia-telangiectasia mutated ( atm ) .
we found a significant increase in p53 and its downstream target , p21 , levels in dichlorvos-treated microglial cells compared with control cells .
moreover , dichlorvos exposure promoted the levels of different cell cycle regulatory proteins .
these results along with flow cytometry results suggested that primary microglial cells were arrested at g1 and g2/m phase after dichlorvos exposure .
we have shown in a previous study that dichlorvos can induce dna damage in microglia ; here we found that microglial cells also tried to repair this damage by inducing a dna repair enzyme , i.e. , atm .
we observed a significant increase in the levels of atm after dichlorvos treatment compared with control .
md-fraction is a highly purified soluble -glucan derived from grifola frondosa ( an oriental edible mushroom ) .
intraperitoneal ( i.p. ) injection of md-fraction has been reported to inhibit tumor growth via enhancement of the host immune system .
in this study , we demonstrated that oral administration of md-fraction as well as i.p. injection significantly inhibited tumor growth in murine tumor models .
after oral administration , md-fraction was not transferred to the blood in its free form but was captured by antigen-presenting cells such as macrophages and dendritic cells ( dcs ) present in the peyer's patch .
the captured md-fraction was then transported to the spleen , thereby inducing the systemic immune response .
our study showed that md-fraction directly induced dc maturation via a c-type lectin receptor dectin-1 pathway .
the therapeutic response of orally administered md-fraction was associated with ( i ) induced systemic tumor-antigen specific t cell response via dectin-1-dependent activation of dcs , ( ii ) increased infiltration of the activated t cells into the tumor , and ( iii ) decreased number of tumor-caused immunosuppressive cells such as regulatory t cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells .
our preclinical study suggests that md-fraction is a useful oral therapeutic agent in the management of patients with cancer.  2012 wiley periodicals , inc .
the anti-tumor antibiotic salinomycin ( sal ) was recently identified as a selective inhibitor of breast cancer stem cells ; however , the effect of sal on hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) is not clear .
this study aimed to determine the anti-tumor efficacy and mechanism of sal on hcc .
hcc cell lines ( hepg2 , smmc-7721 , and bel-7402 ) were treated with sal .
cell doubling time was determinated by drawing growth curve , cell viability was evaluated using the cell counting kit 8 .
the fraction of cd133(+) cell subpopulations was assessed by flow cytometry .
we found that sal inhibits proliferation and decreases pcna levels as well as the proportion of hcc cd133(+)cell subpopulations in hcc cells .
cell cycle was analyzed using flow cytometry and showed that sal caused cell cycle arrest of the various hcc cell lines in different phases .
cell apoptosis was evaluated using flow cytometry and hoechst 33342 staining .
sal induced apoptosis as characterized by an increase in the bax/bcl-2 ratio .
several signaling pathways were selected for further mechanistic analyses using real time-pcr and western blot assays .
compared to control , -catenin expression is significantly down-regulated upon sal addition .
the ca(2+) concentration in hcc cells was examined by flow cytometry and higher ca(2+) concentrations were observed in sal treatment groups .
the anti-tumor effect of sal was further verified in vivo using the hepatoma orthotopic tumor model and the data obtained showed that the size of liver tumors in sal-treated groups decreased compared to controls .
immunohistochemistry and tunel staining also demonstrated that sal inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in vivo .
finally , the role of sal on in vivo wnt/-catenin signaling was evaluated by western blot and immunohistochemistry .
this study demonstrates sal inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis of hcc cells in vitro and in vivo and one potential mechanism is inhibition of wnt/-catenin signaling via increased intracellular ca(2+) levels .
the pancreatic stellate cells ( pscs ) have complex roles in pancreas , including tissue repair and fibrosis .
pscs surround atp releasing exocrine cells , but little is known about purinergic receptors and their function in pscs .
our aim was to resolve whether pscs express the multifunctional p2x7 receptor and elucidate how it regulates psc viability .
the number of pscs isolated from wild type ( wt ) mice was 50% higher than those from the pfizer p2x7 receptor knock out ( ko ) mice .
the p2x7 receptor protein and mrna of all known isoforms were expressed in wt pscs , while ko pscs only expressed truncated versions of the receptor .
in culture , the proliferation rate of the ko pscs was significantly lower .
inclusion of apyrase reduced the proliferation rate in both wt and ko pscs , indicating importance of endogenous atp .
exogenous atp had a two-sided effect .
proliferation of both wt and ko cells was stimulated with atp in a concentration-dependent manner with a maximum effect at 100 m .
at high atp concentration ( 5 mm ) , wt pscs , but not the ko pscs died .
the intracellular ca(2+) signals and proliferation rate induced by micromolar atp concentrations were inhibited by the allosteric p2x7 receptor inhibitor az10606120 .
the p2x7 receptor-pore inhibitor a438079 partially prevented cell death induced by millimolar atp concentrations .
this study shows that atp and p2x7 receptors are important regulators of psc proliferation and death , and therefore might be potential targets for treatments of pancreatic fibrosis and cancer .
hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) is the most prevalent liver tumor and a deadly disease with limited therapeutic options .
dysregulation of cell signaling pathways is a common denominator in tumorigenesis , including hepatocarcinogenesis .
the epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) signaling system is commonly activated in hcc , and is currently being evaluated as a therapeutic target in combination therapies .
we and others have identified a central role for the egfr ligand amphiregulin ( ar ) in the proliferation , survival and drug resistance of hcc cells .
ar expression is frequently up-regulated in hcc tissues and cells through mechanisms not completely known .
here we identify the -catenin signaling pathway as a novel mechanism leading to transcriptional activation of the ar gene in human hcc cells .
activation of -catenin signaling , or expression of the t41a -catenin active mutant , led to the induction of ar expression involving three specific -catenin-tcf responsive elements in its proximal promoter .
we demonstrate that hcc cells expressing the t41a -catenin active mutant show enhanced proliferation that is dependent in part on ar expression and egfr signaling .
we also demonstrate here a novel cross-talk of the egfr system with fibroblast growth factor 19 ( fgf19 ) .
fgf19 is a recently identified driver gene in hepatocarcinogenesis and an activator of -catenin signaling in hcc and colon cancer cells .
we show that fgf19 induced ar gene expression through the -catenin pathway in human hcc cells .
importantly , ar up-regulation and egfr signaling participated in the induction of cyclin d1 and cell proliferation elicited by fgf19 .
finally , we demonstrate a positive correlation between fgf19 and ar expression in human hcc tissues , therefore supporting in clinical samples our experimental observations .
these findings identify the ar/egfr system as a key mediator of fgf19 responses in hcc cells involving -catenin signaling , and suggest that combined targeting of fgf19 and ar/egfr may enhance therapeutic efficacy .
lung cancers express the cholinergic autocrine loop , which facilitates the progression of cancer cells .
the antagonists of machrs have been demonstrated to depress the growth of small cell lung cancers ( sclcs ) .
in this study we intended to investigate the growth inhibitory effect of r2hbjj , a novel muscarinic antagonist , on non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) cells and the possible mechanisms .
the competitive binding assay revealed that r2hbjj had a high affinity to m3 and m1 achrs .
r2hbjj presented a strong anticholinergic activity on carbachol-induced contraction of guinea-pig trachea .
r2hbjj markedly suppressed the growth of nsclc cells , such as h1299 , h460 and h157 .
in h1299 cells , both r2hbjj and its leading compound r2-phc displayed significant anti-proliferative activity as m3 receptor antagonist darifenacin .
exogenous replenish of ach could attenuate r2hbjj-induced growth inhibition .
silencing m3 receptor or chat by specific-sirnas resulted in a growth inhibition of 55.5% and 37.9% on h1299 cells 96 h post transfection , respectively .
further studies revealed that treatment with r2hbjj arrested the cell cycle in g0/g1 by down-regulation of cyclin d1-cdk4/6-rb .
therefore , the current study reveals that nsclc cells express an autocrine and paracrine cholinergic system which stimulates the growth of nsclc cells .
r2hbjj , as a novel machrs antagonist , can block the local cholinergic loop by antagonizing predominantly m3 receptors and inhibit nsclc cell growth , which suggest that m3 receptor antagonist might be a potential chemotherapeutic regimen for nsclc .
dna repair is an essential cellular process required to maintain genomic stability .
every cell is subjected to thousands of dna lesions daily under normal physiological conditions .
ionizing radiation ( ir ) is a major dna damaging agent that can be produced by both natural and man-made sources .
a common source of radiation exposure is through its use in medical diagnostics or treatments such as for cancer radiotherapy where relatively high doses are received by patients .
to understand the detailed dna repair gene transcription response to high dose ir , gene expression exon array studies have been performed and the response to radiation in two divergent cell types , lymphoblastoid cell lines and primary fibroblasts , has been examined .
these exon arrays detect expression levels across the entire gene , and have the advantage of high sensitivity and the ability to identify alternative transcripts .
we found a selection of dna repair genes , including some not previously reported , that are modulated in response to radiation .
detailed dose and time course kinetics of dna repair transcription was conducted and results have been validated utilizing pcr methods .
alternative transcription products in response to ir were identified in several dna repair genes including rrm2b and xpc where alternative initiation sites were found .
these investigations have advanced the knowledge about the transcriptional response of dna repair .
prostate cancer is the second most common cancer in elderly men worldwide and its incidence rate is rising continuously .
agents capable of inducing apoptosis in prostate cancer cells seem a promising approach to treat this malignancy .
in this study we describe the synthesis of a number of novel n- and n,n'-substituted s-2,3,4,5,6-pentabromobenzylisothiouronium bromides and their activity against the human prostate adenocarcinoma pc3 cell line .
all the compounds produced changes in mitochondrial transmembrane potential and cell cycle progression , showed a cytostatic effect and induced apoptosis in the tested cancer line in a concentration- and time-dependent manner .
the most effective compounds zkk-3 , zkk-9 and zkk-13 produced , at 20 microm concentration , apoptosis in 42 , 46 , and 66% of the cells , respectively , after 48 h incubation .
two selected s-2,3,4,5,6-pentabromobenzylisothiouronium bromides ( zkk-3 , zkk-9 ) showed also a synergic proapoptotic effect with the new casein kinase ii inhibitor 2-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-4,5,6,7-tetrabromo-1h-benzimidazole ( tbipip ) in the pc3 cell line .
objective to investigate the effect of bufalin on nucleus-mitochondria localization of human telomerase reverse transcriptase(htert) by exploring its effect on proliferation and apoptosis in human esophageal squamous carcinoma ec9706 cells .
methods ec9706 cells were treated with bufalin at various concentrations , and then the cell growth inhibition of ec9706 cells was examined by cck-8 assay and the 50% inhibitory concentration ( ic(50) ) was calculated.cell cycle analysis was performed by flow cytometry with pi staining , and nucleus morphology of apoptosis were observed by fluorescence microscopy with hoechst 33342 staining .
the apoptotic index was measured by flow cytometry with annexin v-fitc/pi double staining. htert subcellular localization and protein expression were determined by western blotting and multiple immunofluorescence labling combined with laser confocal scanning microscopy .
results the proliferation of ec 9706 cells was significantly inhibited by bufalin along with the increase of processing time and concentrations ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
after the ec9706 cells were exposed to 100 nmol/l bufalin,the number of cells gradually decreased in g(1) phase and increased in s and g(2)/m phases(p&lt;0.05) .
the typical nucleus morphological changes of apoptosis were observed and the apoptotic index was increased(p&lt;0.01) .
the expression of htert decreased in nucleus but increased in mitochondria(p&lt;0.05) .
conclusions bufalin can inhibit the proliferation of human esophageal squamous carcinoma ec9706 cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner .
it can arrest cell cycle in s and g(2)/m phases and induce the apoptosis of ec 9706 cells. htert is localized in both nucleus and mitochondria,and can be partially translocated from nucleus to mitochondria during the bufalin-induced apoptosis .
induced pluripotent stem ( ips ) cells share some basic properties , such as self-renewal and pluripotency , with cancer cells , and they also appear to share several metabolic alterations that are commonly observed in human tumors .
the cancer cells ' glycolytic phenotype , first reported by otto warburg , is necessary for the optimal routing of somatic cells to pluripotency .
however , how ips cells establish a warburg-like metabolic phenotype and whether the metabolic pathways that support the bioenergetics of ips cells are produced by the same mechanisms that are selected during the tumorigenic process remain largely unexplored .
we recently investigated whether the reprogramming-competent metabotype of ips cells involves changes in the activation/expression status of the h ( + ) -atpase , which is a core component of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation that is repressed at both the activity and protein levels in human carcinomas , and of the lipogenic switch , which refers to a marked overexpression and hyperactivity of the acetyl-coa carboxylase ( acaca ) and fatty acid synthase ( fasn ) lipogenic enzymes that has been observed in nearly all examined cancer types .
a comparison of a starting population of mouse embryonic fibroblasts and their ips cell progeny revealed that somatic cell reprogramming involves a significant increase in the expression of atpase inhibitor factor 1 ( if1 ) , accompanied by extremely low expression levels of the catalytic -f1-atpase subunit .
the pharmacological inhibition of acaca and fasn activities markedly decreases reprogramming efficiency , and acaca and fasn expression are notably upregulated in ips cells .
importantly , ips cells exhibited a significant intracellular accumulation of neutral lipid bodies ; however , these bodies may be a reflection of intense lysosomal/autophagocytic activity rather than bona fide lipid droplet formation in ips cells , as they were largely unresponsive to pharmacological modulation of ppargamma and fasn activities .
the ampk agonist metformin , which endows somatic cells with a bioenergetic infrastructure that is protected against reprogramming , was found to drastically elongate fibroblast mitochondria , fully reverse the high if1/-f1-atpase ratio and downregulate the acaca/fasn lipogenic enzymes in ips cells .
the mitochondrial h ( + ) -atp synthase and the acaca/fasn-driven lipogenic switch are newly characterized as instrumental metabolic events that , by coupling the warburg effect to anabolic metabolism , enable de-differentiation during the reprogramming of somatic cells to ips cells .
filamin-a cross-links actin filaments into dynamic orthogonal networks , and interacts with an array of proteins of diverse cellular functions .
because several filamin-a interaction partners are implicated in signaling of cell mobility regulation , we tested the hypothesis that filamin-a plays a role in cancer metastasis .
using four pairs of filamin-a proficient and deficient isogenic cell lines , we found that filamin-a deficiency in cancer cells significantly reduces their migration and invasion .
using a xenograft tumor model with subcutaneous and intracardiac injections of tumor cells , we found that the filamin-a deficiency causes significant reduction of lung , splenic and systemic metastasis in nude mice .
we evaluated the expression of filamin-a in breast cancer tissues by immunohistochemical staining , and found that low levels of filamin-a expression in cancer cells of the tumor tissues are associated with a better distant metastasis-free survival than those with normal levels of filamin-a .
these data not only validate filamin-a as a prognostic marker for cancer metastasis , but also suggest that inhibition of filamin-a in cancer cells may reduce metastasis and that filamin-a can be used as a therapeutic target for filamin-a positive cancer .
the increasing evidence supported the role of enhancer of zeste homolog 2 ( ezh2 ) in the cancer development and progression .
however , its precise role in the tumorigenesis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( npc ) remains to be elucidated .
ezh2 was depleted by retroviral infection in the npc cells ( hk-1 , cne-2 , cne-1 and c666-1 ) .
the degree of ezh2 knockdown was then assessed by real-time quantitative pcr and western blot analysis .
cell proliferation was assessed using the soluble tetrazolium salt ( mts ) cell proliferation assay , and cell cycle was measured by facs test .
the methylation status of p16(ink4a )was determined by bisulphate treatment of the dna , followed by msp .
ezh2 was over-expressed in npc cells , and the expression in undifferentiated-derived npc cells ( cne-1 , c666-1 ) was more significant than differentiated-derived npc cells ( hk-1 , cne-2 ) .
ezh2 was successfully depleted after retroviral infection in c666-1 cells , and the ezh2 depletion could inhibit the proliferation and arrested g1/s phase of npc cells .
in addition , both mrna and protein levels of p16(ink4a) increased significantly in presence of ezh2 depletion .
the further methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction ( msp ) assay suggested that over-expressed ezh2 may contribute to the reduction of p16(ink4a) expression by hyper methylating its promoter .
ezh2 is overexpressed in npc and reduces expression of p16(ink4a) by influencing methylation , opening therapeutic options .
immunosuppressive oligodeoxynucleotides ( supodns ) containing repetitive ttaggg motifs reduce inflammation and , thus , may have an impact on inflammationrelated tumor growth .
in this study , we found a significant antiproliferative effect of sup odns on the a549 nonsmall cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) cell line compared to those treated with control odns ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
sup-odn-mediated g1 phase cell cycle arrest was achieved via inhibition of akt and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 phosphorylation and the p15ink4b and p27kip1/retinoblastoma protein pathway .
in addition , sup odns induced apoptosis and enhanced apoptosis when combined with vinorelbine .
in a setting similar to clinical use of multidrug chemotherapy for advanced nsclc , these effects were investigated by using sup odns in combination with conventional anticancer drugs .
sup odns had a significant synergistic effect with 5-fluorouracil , vinorelbine , gemcitabine , paclitaxel and irinotecan , with a mean combination index of 0.43-0.78 ( &lt;1.0 indicates synergism ) in the a549 nsclc cell line .
in conclusion , our results showed that sup odns have an anticancer effect and increase the sensitivity of nsclc cells to conventional anticancer drugs by modifying akt and the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 pathway .
thus , sup odns may serve as a novel therapeutic strategy for nsclc patients .
in mammalian cells more than 90% of double-strand breaks are repaired by nhej .
impairment of this pathway is associated with cell cycle arrest , cell death , genomic instability and cancer .
human diseases such as nijmegen breakage syndrome , due to mutations in the nbs1 gene , produce defects in resection of double-strand breaks .
nbs1 hypomorphic mutant mice are viable , and cells from these mice are defective in s phase and g2/m checkpoints .
nbs1 polymorphisms have been associated with increased risk of breast cancer .
we previously demonstrated that estradiol protected estrogen receptor ( er)-positive ( + ) breast cancer cell lines against double-strand breaks and cell death .
we now demonstrate that protection from double-strand break damage in er+ cells is mediated via regulation by c-myc , p53 , cbp and src1 coactivators in intron 1 of the nbs1 gene .
we concluded that nbs1 is responsible for estradiol-mediated protection from double-strand breaks in er+ breast cancer cells .
diarylquinoline compounds are newly synthesized derivatives of the new anti-tuberculosis drug , tmc207 .
in this study , nine diarylquinoline compounds were screened for cytotoxic activity against human tumor cells , and their mechanisms of action were investigated .
among the nine compounds , stm-57 [ n-((6-bromo-2-methoxyquinolin-3-yl)(phenyl)methl)-n-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(4 -methylpiperazin-1-yl)propanamide ] showed potent cytotoxic activity .
stm-57 induced caspase-independent cell death in the human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line , cne-2 .
further investigation showed that stm-57 induced autophagy , as determined with the increased expression of green fluorescent protein-light chain3 ( gfp-lc3 ) and increased lc3-ii levels .
stm-57 inhibited the phosphorylation of akt and the mammalian target of rapamycin ( mtor ) in cne-2 cells .
the intracellular calcium concentration and reactive oxygen species levels were increased in cne-2 cells following treatment with stm-57 , whereas the mitochondrial transmembrane potential ( m ) and atp concentrations were decreased .
here , we provide the necessary proof of concept , that it is possible to metabolically create a non-permissive or " hostile " stromal microenvironment , which actively prevents tumor engraftment in vivo .
we developed a novel genetically engineered fibroblast cell line that completely prevents tumor formation in mice , with a 100% protection rate .
no host side effects were apparent.this could represent a viable cellular strategy for preventing and treating a variety of human cancers .
more specifically , we examined the autocrine and paracrine effects of the cellular delivery of tnf-alpha on breast cancer tumor growth and cancer metabolism .
for this purpose , we recombinantly overexpressed tnf-alpha in human breast cancer cells ( mda-mb-231 ) or human immortalized fibroblasts ( htert-bj1 ) .
our results directly show that tnf-alpha functions as a potent tumor suppressor .
remarkably , tnf-alpha-expressing breast cancer cells were viable , without any significant increases in their basal apoptotic rate .
however , after 4 weeks post-implantation , tnf-alpha-expressing breast cancer cells failed to form any tumors in xenografted mice ( 0 tumors/10 injections ) , ultimately conferring 100% protection against tumorigenesis .
similarly , tnf-alpha-overexpressing fibroblasts were also viable , without any increases in apoptosis .
significantly , complete tumor suppression was obtained by co-injecting tnf-alpha expressing stromal fibroblasts with human breast cancer cells , indicating that paracrine cell-mediated delivery of tnf-alpha can also prevent tumor engraftment and growth ( 0 tumors/10 injections ) .
mechanistically , tnf-alpha induced autophagy and mitochondrial dysfunction in both epithelial cancer cells and stromal fibroblasts , preventing energy transfer from the tumor microenvironment , likely " starving " the cancer cells to death .
in addition , via qrt-pcr analysis of mda-mb-231 cells , we observed that tnf-alpha mediated the up-regulation of gene transcripts associated with inflammation and senescence [ il-1-beta , il-6 , il-8 , mcp-1 , cox-2 , p21(waf1/cip1) ] and downregulated known tumor-promoting genes ( collagen vi and mmp2 ) .
recombinant overexpression of tnf-alpha receptor(s) in mda-mb-231 cells also significantly reduced tumor growth , but was not as effective as the tnf-alpha ligand itself in preventing tumor growth .
thus , we propose that stromal cell-mediated delivery of tnf-alpha to human tumors [ using transfected fibroblasts or mesenchymal stem cells ( hmscs) ] may be a novel and effective strategy for the prevention and treatment of human cancers .
the aberrant expression of human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 ( her-2 ) has been detected in ovarian cancer .
however , the role of her-2 in the development of ovarian cancer has not been sufficiently elucidated .
the objective of this study was to determine the role of her-2 in the apoptosis and metastasis of skov-3 ovarian cancer cells .
skov-3 cells were transfected with three doublestranded small interfering rna ( sirna ) molecules that target her-2 .
various sequences were synthesized by t7 transcription invitro to select the most effective her-2silencing sirna .
skov-3 cells were examined for growth inhibition using the mtt proliferation assay and apoptosis was assessed using flow cytometry and tunel assay .
the matrigel basement memebrane matrix was used to assess invasion and chemotactic mobility , as a model of tumor cell metastasis .
western blot analysis was used to detect the expression of matrix metallopeptidase-9 ( mmp-9 ) , e-cadherin , n-cadherin and vimentin. sirna interference in her-2 resulted in decreased cell proliferation and invasion and increased apoptosis .
western blot analysis demonstrated a marked increase in e-cadherin and mmp-9 and a reduction in n-cadherin and vimentin protein levels in the skov-3 cells .
the suppression of her-2 expression resulted in apoptosis and the inhibition of metastasis of skov-3 cells .
therefore , the overexpression of the her-2 gene can enhance the metastatic potential of skov-3 cells by increasing the protein levels of mmp-9 .
epithelial-mesenchymal transition may be involved in the her-2 sirna-induced invasion and migration of skov-3 cells .
taken together , these results suggest that her-2 functions as an oncogene and may thus be an attractive therapeutic target in skov-3 ovarian cancer cells .
cell invasion is required for neoplastic metastasis .
matrix metalloproteinase-9 ( mmp-9 ) , which degrades the extracellular matrix , is a major component in the process of cancer cell invasion .
sulfuretin is one of the major flavonoids isolated from rhus verniciflua .
sulfuretin has been used to reduce oxidative stress , platelet aggregation , the inflammatory response and mutagenesis .
however , the effect of sulfuretin on breast cancer metastasis is unknown .
in this study , we investigated the inhibitory effect of sulfuretin on 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa)-induced mmp-9 expression and cell invasion in mcf-7 cells .
sulfuretin inhibited tpa-induced transcriptional activation of nuclear factor-b ( nf-b ) .
we demonstrated that sulfuretin mediated the inhibition of tpa-induced mmp-9 expression and that cell invasion in mcf-7 cells involved suppression of the nf-b pathway .
therefore , inhibiting mmp-9 expression by sulfuretin may have therapeutic potential for controlling breast cancer invasiveness .
prostate cancer is responsible for major deaths globally after lung cancer .
however , etiology of prostate cancer is still unknown .
individual risk and incidence of prostate cancer may result from the interaction of genetic susceptibility with exposure to environmental factors such as infectious agents , tobacco , occupational exposure , dietary carcinogens , and/or hormonal imbalances leading to injury of the prostate and to the development of chronic inflammation .
about 30% of all human cancers are caused by tobacco smoking and inhaled pollutants .
inflammation is now regarded as an important hallmark of cancer .
the present study has been aimed to explore the pro-inflammatory levels in prostate carcinoma patients by examining the serum levels of novel cytokine interleukin-18 ( il-18 ) expression in tobacco exposed population .
a total of 578 ( n = 284 biopsy proven prostate cancer patients , n = 294 controls with and without tobacco exposed population ) were recruited .
serum il-18 ( interleukin-18 ) level was done by elisa .
the il-18 levels between cancer patients and controls within same mode tobacco exposure as tobacco smoking ( overall ) showed significant difference ( p &lt ; 0.0001 ) and further we compared within stratified group , it significantly differ ( p &lt ; 0.0001 ) in bidi and cigarette smoking than control non users .
furthermore , il-18 levels in tobacco chewers ( overall ) with gutkha and khaini chewers showed significant difference ( p &lt ; 0.01 ) than controls non users .
moreover , the il-18 levels between cancer patients and controls with in of combined mode chewers smokers and alcohol ( csa ) , smokers with alcohol showed significant difference ( p &lt ; 0.01 ) than controls .
the il-18 levels also differed significantly ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) with smokers and chewers in higher stages of iii and iv , and showed non significant with in lower stages .
tobacco exposure enhance the inflammation in prostate carcinoma patients in stratified group as it have been represented as a risk factors in various cancers , but this study provide further its role that seems to influence inflammation especially in prostate carcinoma .
objective in addition to its effects on cholesterol levels , apoe3 has lipid-independent effects that contribute to cardiovascular protection ; one of these effects is the ability to inhibit cell cycling in vsmcs .
the goal of this study was to identify and characterize cell cycle-regulatory mechanisms responsible for the anti-mitogenic effect of apoe .
methods and results primary vsmcs were stimulated with serum in the absence or presence of apoe3. apoe3 upregulated expression of the cdk inhibitor , p27(kip1) , in primary vsmcs , and this effect required cox2 and activation of pgi(2)-ip signaling .
the microrna family , mir221/222 has recently been identified as a post-translational regulator of p27 , and apoe3 inhibited mir221/222 expression in a cox2- and pgi(2)/ip-dependent manner .
moreover , reconstituted mir222 expression was sufficient to override the effects of apoe on p27 expression and s phase entry .
the ability to repress expression of mir221/222 is shared by apoe3-containing hdl but is absent from apoa-1 , ldl and apoe-depleted hdl .
all three apoe isoforms regulate mir221/222 , and the effect is independent of the c-terminal lipid-binding domain. mir221/222 levels are increased in the aortae of apoe3-null mice and reduced when apoe3 expression is reconstituted by adeno-associated virus infection .
thus , regulation of mir221/222 by apoe3 occurs invivo as well as invitro .
conclusions apoe inhibits vsmc proliferation by regulating p27 through mir221/222 .
control of cell cycle-regulatory micrornas adds a new dimension to the spectrum of cardiovascular protective effects afforded by apoe and apoe-hdl .
protein kinase b ( akt)/mammalian target of rapamycin ( mtor ) signaling pathway plays a crucial role in the tumorigenesis and progression of multiple tumors , and has been shown to be important therapeutic targets for cancer .
the present study aimed to explore the role and molecular mechanisms of akt/mtor pathway in human hemangioma ( ha ) .
twenty-five cases of human ha tissues were collected .
the expression of akt , mtor and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( pcna ) proteins was evaluated using semi-quantitative immunohistochemistry in biopsy samples in different phases of ha .
akt/mtor pathway was blocked by recombinant small hairpin rna adenovirus vector rad5-akt+mtor ( rad5-am ) , used for infecting proliferating phase ha-derived endothelial cells ( hdec ) .
the expression of akt , mtor and pcna was detected by real-time pcr and western blot assays .
cell proliferative activities were determined by mtt assay , and cell cycle distribution and apoptosis were analyzed by flow cytometry .
as a consequence , the expression of akt , mtor and pcna was significantly increased in proliferative phase ha , while that was decreased in involutive phase .
combined blockade of akt/mtor pathway by rad5-am diminished cell proliferative activities , and induced cell apoptosis and cycle arrest with the decreased expression of akt , mtor and pcna in proliferative phase hdec .
in conclusion , the activity of akt/mtor pathway was increased in proliferative phase ha , while it was decreased in involutive phase .
combined blockade of akt/mtor pathway might suppress cell proliferation via down-regulation of pcna expression , and induce apoptosis and cycle arrest in proliferative phase hdec , suggesting that akt/mtor pathway might represent the important therapeutic targets for human ha .
approximately half of all her2/neu-overexpressing breast cancer patients do not respond to trastuzumab-containing therapy .
therefore , there remains an urgent and unmet clinical need for the development of predictive biomarkers for trastuzumab response .
recently , several lines of evidence have demonstrated that the inflammatory tumor microenvironment is a major contributor to therapy resistance in breast cancer .
in order to explore the predictive value of inflammation in breast cancer patients , we measured the inflammatory biomarkers serum ferritin and c-reactive protein ( crp ) in 66 patients immediately before undergoing trastuzumab-containing therapy and evaluated their progression-free and overall survival .
the elevation in pre-treatment serum ferritin ( &gt;250 ng/ml ) or crp ( &gt;7.25 mg/l ) was a significant predictor of reduced progression-free survival and shorter overall survival .
when patients were stratified based on their serum ferritin and crp levels , patients with elevation in both inflammatory biomarkers had a markedly poorer response to trastuzumab-containing therapy .
therefore , the elevation in inflammatory serum biomarkers may reflect a pathological state that decreases the clinical efficacy of this therapy .
anti-inflammatory drugs and life-style changes to decrease inflammation in cancer patients should be explored as possible strategies to sensitize patients to anti-cancer therapeutics .
nuclear factor kappa-b ( nf-b ) activates multiple genes with overlapping roles in cell proliferation , inflammation and cancer .
using an unbiased approach we identified human cdk6 as a novel kinase phosphorylating nf-b p65 at serine 536 .
purified and reconstituted cdk6/cyclin complexes phosphorylated p65 in vitro and in transfected cells .
the physiological role of cdk6 for basal as well as cytokine-induced p65 phosphorylation or nf-b activation was revealed upon rnai-mediated suppression of cdk6 .
inhibition of cdk6 catalytic activity by pd332991 suppressed activation of nf-b and tnf-induced gene expression .
in complex with a constitutively active viral cyclin cdk6 stimulated nf-b p65-mediated transcription in a target gene specific manner and this effect was partially dependent on its ability to phosphorylate p65 at serine 536 .
tumor formation in thymi and spleens of v-cyclin transgenic mice correlated with increased levels of p65 ser536 phosphorylation , increased expression of cdk6 and upregulaton of the nf-b target cyclin d3 .
these results suggest that aberrant cdk6 expression or activation that is frequently observed in human tumors can contribute through nf-b to chronic inflammation and neoplasia .
angiogenesis , the formation of new blood vessels from pre-existing vascular beds , is essential for tumor growth , invasion , and metastasis .
luteolin is a common dietary flavonoid found in fruits and vegetables .
we studied the antiangiogenic activity of luteolin using in vitro , ex vivo , and in vivo models .
in vitro studies using rat aortic ring assay showed that luteolin at non-toxic concentrations significantly inhibited microvessel sprouting and proliferation , migration , invasion and tube formation of endothelial cells , which are key events in the process of angiogenesis .
luteolin also inhibited ex vivo angiogenesis as revealed by chicken egg chorioallantoic membrane assay ( cam ) and matrigel plug assay .
gelatin zymographic analysis demonstrated the inhibitory effect of luteolin on the activation of matrix metalloproteinases mmp-2 and mmp-9 .
western blot analysis showed that luteolin suppressed vegf induced phosphorylation of vegf receptor 2 and their downstream protein kinases akt , erk , mtor , p70s6k , mmp-2 , and mmp-9 in huvecs .
proinflammatory cytokines such as il-1 , il-6 , il-8 , and tnf- level were significantly reduced by the treatment of luteolin in pc-3 cells .
luteolin ( 10 mg/kg/d ) significantly reduced the volume and the weight of solid tumors in prostate xenograft mouse model , indicating that luteolin inhibited tumorigenesis by targeting angiogenesis .
cd31 and cd34 immunohistochemical staining further revealed that the microvessel density could be remarkably suppressed by luteolin .
moreover , luteolin reduced cell viability and induced apoptosis in prostate cancer cells , which were correlated with the downregulation of akt , erk , mtor , p70s6k , mmp-2 , and mmp-9 expressions .
taken together , our findings demonstrate that luteolin inhibits human prostate tumor growth by suppressing vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2-mediated angiogenesis .
tumors are infiltrated by macrophages , t and b-lymphocytes , which may favor tumor development by promoting angiogenesis , growth and invasion .
the aim of this study was to investigate the clinical relevance of the relative amount of macrophages ( cd68 ) , t-cells ( cd3 and b-cells ( cd20 ) at the invasive front of breast carcinomas , and the expression of matrix metalloproteases ( mmps ) and their inhibitors ( timps ) either at the invasive front or at the tumor center .
we performed an immunohistochemical study counting cd3 , cd20 and cd68 positive cells at the invasive front , in 102 breast carcinomas .
also , tissue sections were stained with mmp-2 , -9 , -11 , -14 and timp-2 antibodies , and immunoreactivity location , percentage of reactive area and intensity were determined at the invasive front and at the tumor center .
the results showed that an increased cd68 count and cd68/(cd3+cd20) ratio were directly associated with both mmp-11 and timp-2 expression by mononuclear inflammatory cells at the tumor center ( p=0.041 and p=0.025 for cd68 count and p=0.001 and p=0.045 for ratio , respectively for mmp-11 and timp-2 ) .
in addition , a high cd68/(cd3+cd20) ratio ( &gt;0.05 ) was directly associated with a higher probability of shortened relapse-free survival .
multivariate analysis revealed that cd68/(cd3+cd20) ratio was an independent factor associated with distant relapse-free survival ( rr : 2.54 , ci : ( 1.23-5.24 ) , p&lt;0.01 ) .
therefore , cd68/(cd3+cd20) ratio at the invasive front could be used as an important prognostic marker .
lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths in the world .
achaete-scute complex homolog-1 ( ascl1 ) is a member of the basic helix-loop-helix ( bhlh ) transcription factor family that has multiple functions in the normal and neoplastic lung such as the regulation of neuroendocrine differentiation , prevention of apoptosis and promotion of tumor-initiating cells .
we now show that ascl1 directly regulates matrix metalloproteinase-7 ( mmp-7 ) and o(6)-methylguanine-dna methyltransferase ( mgmt ) .
loss- and gain-of-function experiments in human bronchial epithelial and lung carcinoma cell lines revealed that ascl1 , mmp-7 and mgmt are able to protect cells from the tobacco-specific nitrosamine nnk-induced dna damage and the alkylating agent cisplatin-induced apoptosis .
we also examined the role of ascl1 in nnk-induced lung tumorigenesis in vivo .
using transgenic mice which constitutively expressed human ascl1 in airway lining cells , we found that there was a delay in lung tumorigenesis .
we conclude that ascl1 potentially enhances dna repair through activation of mmp-7 and mgmt which may impact lung carcinogenesis and chemoresistance .
the study has uncovered a novel and unexpected function of ascl1 which will contribute to better understanding of lung carcinogenesis and the broad implications of transcription factors in tobacco-related carcinogenesis .
novel strategies are necessary to improve chemotherapy response in advanced and recurrent endometrial cancer .
here , we demonstrate that terpenoids present in the steam distilled extract of ginger ( sdge ) are potent inhibitors of proliferation of endometrial cancer cells .
sdge , isolated from six different batches of ginger rhizomes , consistently inhibited proliferation of the endometrial cancer cell lines ishikawa and ecc-1 at ic(50) of 1.25 g/ml .
sdge also enhanced the anti-proliferative effect of radiation and cisplatin .
decreased proliferation of ishikawa and ecc-1 cells was a direct result of sdge-induced apoptosis as demonstrated by fitc-annexin v staining and expression of cleaved caspase 3 .
gc/ms analysis identified a total of 22 different terpenoid compounds in sdge , with the isomers neral and geranial constituting 30-40% .
citral , a mixture of neral and geranial inhibited the proliferation of ishikawa and ecc-1 cells at an ic(50) 10 m ( 2.3 g/ml ) .
phenolic compounds such as gingerol and shogaol were not detected in sdge and 6-gingerol was a weaker inhibitor of the proliferation of the endometrial cancer cells .
sdge was more effective in inducing cancer cell death than citral , suggesting that other terpenes present in sdge were also contributing to endometrial cancer cell death .
sdge treatment resulted in a rapid and strong increase in intracellular calcium and a 20-40% decrease in the mitochondrial membrane potential .
ser-15 of p53 was phosphorylated after 15 min treatment of the cancer cells with sdge .
this increase in p53 was associated with 90% decrease in bcl2 whereas no effect was observed on bax .
inhibitor of p53 , pifithrin- , attenuated the anti-cancer effects of sdge and apoptosis was also not observed in the p53(neg) skov-3 cells .
our studies demonstrate that terpenoids from sdge mediate apoptosis by activating p53 and should be therefore be investigated as agents for the treatment of endometrial cancer .
retinoic acid ( ra ) has been believed to be an anticancer drug for a long history .
however , the molecular mechanisms of ra actions on cancer cells remain diverse .
in this study , the dose-dependent inhibition of ra on du145 cell proliferation was identified .
interestingly , ra treatment triggered p35 cleavage ( p25 formation ) and cdk5 overactivation , and all could be blocked by calpain inhibitor , calpeptin ( cp ) .
subsequently , ra-triggered du145 apoptosis detected by sub-g1 phase accumulation and annexin v staining could also be blocked by cp treatment .
furthermore , ra-triggered caspase 3 activation and following cdk5 over-activation were destroyed by treatments of both cp and cdk5 knockdown .
in conclusion , we report a new mechanism in which ra could cause apoptosis of androgen-independent prostate cancer cells through p35 cleavage and cdk5 over-activation .
this finding may contribute to constructing a clearer image of ra function and bring ra as a valuable chemoprevention agent for prostate cancer patients .
background .
multiple myeloma ( mm ) , an almost incurable disease , is the second most common blood cancer .
initial chemotherapeutic treatment could be successful ; however , resistance development urges the use of higher toxic doses accompanied by hematopoietic stem cell transplantation .
the establishment of more effective treatments that can overcome or circumvent chemoresistance has become a priority .
we recently demonstrated that venom extracted from walterinnesia aegyptia ( wev ) either alone or in combination with silica nanoparticles ( wev+nps ) mediated the growth arrest and apoptosis of prostate cancer cells .
in the present study , we evaluated the impact of wev alone and wev+np on proliferation and apoptosis of mm cells .
methods .
the impacts of wev alone and wev+np were monitored in mm cells from 70 diagnosed patients .
the influences of wev and wev+np were assessed with flow cytometry analysis .
results .
wev alone and wev+np decreased the viability of mm cells .
using a cfse proliferation assay , we found that wev+np strongly inhibited mm cell proliferation .
furthermore , analysis of the cell cycle using the propidium iodide ( pi ) staining method indicated that wev+np strongly altered the cell cycle of mm cells and enhanced the induction of apoptosis .
conclusions .
our data reveal the biological effects of wev and wev+np on mm cells that enable these compounds to function as effective treatments for mm .
background and objective .
the cell cycle is regulated by proteins at different checkpoints , and dysregulation of this cycle plays a role in carcinogenesis .
matrix metalloproteinases ( mmps ) are enzymes that degrade collagen and promote tumour infiltration .
the aim of this study was to evaluate the expression of various cell cycle regulators and mmps and to correlate such expression with progression and recurrence in patients with stage t1 urothelial carcinoma of the bladder ( ucb ) .
patients and methods .
this population-based cohort study comprised 201 well-characterized patients with primary stage t1 urothelial carcinoma of the bladder .
immunohistochemistry was performed on formalin-fixed material to quantify expression of cell cycle regulators and two mmps .
results .
normal expression of p53 and abnormal expression of mmp9 were associated with greater risk of tumour recurrence .
also , normal p16 expression was related to a lower risk of tumour progression .
mmp2 , p21 , cyclin d1 , and prb showed no significant results that could estimate progression or recurrence .
conclusions .
normal p16 expression is associated with a lower risk of tumour progression , but immunohistochemistry on cell cycle regulators and mmps has little value in predicting the prognosis in stage t1 ucb .
the expression of the angiogenic phenotype is regulated by a balance of pro-angiogenic and anti-angiogenic factors released into the tumor microenvironment .
nuclear protein 7 ( nol7 ) , a novel tumor suppressor , acts as a master regulator of angiogenesis by downregulating pro-angiogenic factors and upregulating anti-angiogenic factors .
using cervical cancer as a model of investigation , we have previously shown that loss of nol7 mrna and protein expression is observed as early as the premalignant phase .
analysis of the gene failed to identify tumor-specific promoter methylation or coding region mutations , suggesting that nol7 loss may be mediated by aberrant expression of its upstream regulators .
in this study , we show that the rb tumor suppressor gene ( rb ) positively regulates nol7 at the transcriptional level by recruiting transcription factors and transcription machinery proteins to its promoter region .
conversely , the loss of rb represses nol7 transcription by inhibiting assembly of these proteins .
this loss of nol7 expression is also observed in rb-deficient human malignancies .
together , this work further characterizes the transcriptional activator function of rb and defines a potential role for rb in regulating angiogenesis through activation of nol7 .
current anti-angiogenic therapies lack long-term efficacy , as they are unable to target the diverse angiogenic signals generated by tumors .
our data provide evidence to support the hypothesis that reactivation of prb can potentially modulate the expression of the angiogenic phenotype through regulation of nol7 .
therefore , this knowledge may be employed to design more comprehensive and effective therapies .
objective the aim of this retrospective study is to analyze the clinical and pathological factors related to the prognosis of chinese patients with stage ib to iib cervical cancer .
methods and results 13 clinical pathological factors in 255 patients with stage ib to iib cervical cancer undergoing radical hysterectomy and systematic lymphadenectomy were analyzed to screen for factors related to prognosis .
the cumulative 5-year survival of the 255 patients was 75.7% .
the result of the univariate analysis suggested that clinical stage , cell differentiation , depth of cervical stromal invasion , parametrial tissue involvement , and lymph node metastasis were prognostic factors for patients with stage ib to iib cervical cancer ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
compared with cases with involvement of iliac nodes , obturator nodes , or inguinal lymph nodes , cases with metastasis to the common iliac lymph nodes had a poorer prognosis ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
cases with involvement of four or more lymph nodes had a poorer prognosis than those with involvement of three or fewer lymph nodes ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
using multivariate cox proportional hazards model regression analysis , non-squamous histological type , poor differentiation , parametrial tissue involvement , and outer 1/3 stromal invasion were found to be independently related to patients poor prognosis ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
conclusion non-squamous histological type , poor cell differentiation , parametrial tissue involvement , and outer 1/3 stromal invasion are the independent poor prognostic factors for patients with stage ib to iib cervical cancer .
onions ( allium cepa l. ) are widely used in the food industry for its nutritional and aromatic properties .
our studies showed that ethyl acetate extract of onion ( eeo ) had potent inhibitory effects on animal fatty acid synthase ( fas ) , and could induce apoptosis in fas over-expressing human breast cancer mda-mb-231 cells .
furthermore , this apoptosis was accompanied by reduction of intracellular fas activity and could be rescued by 25 mm or 50 mm exogenous palmitic acids , the final product of fas catalyzed synthesis .
these results suggest that the apoptosis induced by eeo occurs via inhibition of fas .
we also found that eeo could suppress lipid accumulation during the differentiation of 3t3-l1 adipocytes , which was also related to its inhibition of intracellular fas activity .
since obesity is closely related to breast cancer and obese patients are at elevated risk of developing various cancers , these findings suggested that onion might be useful for preventing obesity-related malignancy .
family with sequence similarity 189 , member b ( fam189b ) , alias cote1 , a putative oncogene selected by microarray , for the first time was here found to be significantly up-regulated in hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) specimens and hcc cell lines. mrna expression of cote1 in hcc samples and cell lines was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) and real-time pcr , while protein expression of cote1 in hcc tissues was assessed by immunohistochemistry .
in addition , invasion of hcc cells was observed after overexpressing or silencing cote1 .
in the total of 48 paired hcc specimens , compared with the adjacent non-cancer tissues , the expression of cote1 was up-regulated in 31 ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
in hcc cell lines , cote1 expression was significantly higher than in normal human adult liver ( p&lt;0.01 ) .
overexpression of cote1 enhanced hcc-derived lm6 and mhcc-l cellular invasion in vitro .
in contrast , cote1 knockdown via rnai markedly suppressed these phenotypes , as documented in lm3 and mhcc-h hcc cells .
mechanistic analyses indicated that cote1 could physically associate with ww domain oxidoreductase ( wwox ) , a tumor suppressor .
cote1 may be closely correlated with invasion of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) cells and thus may serve as an effective target for gene therapy .
breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in women in the world and is one of the leading causes of death due to cancer .
health benefits have been linked to additive and synergistic combinations of phytochemicals in fruits and vegetables .
nigella sativa has been shown to possess anti-carcinogenic activity , inhibiting growth of several cancer cell lines in vitro .
however , the molecular mechanisms of the anti-cancer properties of nigella sativa phytochemical extracts have not been completely understood .
our data showed that nigella sativa extracts significantly inhibited human breast cancer mda-mb-231 cell proliferation at doses of 2.5-5 g/ml ( p&lt;0.05 ) .
apoptotic induction in mda-mb-231 cells was observed in a dose-dependent manner after exposure to nigella sativa extracts for 48 h .
real time pcr and flow cytometry analyses suggested that nigella sativa extracts possess the ability to suppress the proliferation of human breast cancer cells through induction of apoptosis .
momordica charantia has been found to exhibit anticancer activity , in addition to its well-known therapeutic functions .
we have demonstrated that the leaf extract of momordica charantia ( mcme ) induces apoptosis in several human cancer cells through caspase- and mitochondria-dependent pathways .
in this study , a different susceptibility to mcme was found in human lung adenocarcinoma cl1 cells with different metastatic ability , leading to the significant difference of cell viability and invasiveness between mcme-treated cl1-0 and cl1-5 cells .
mcme was found to upregulate the expression of wnt-2 and affect the migratory and invasive ability of cl1 cells through suppressed mmp-2 and mmp-9 enzymatic activities .
we proposed that mcme mediates inhibition against migration of cl1 cells by reducing the expression and activation of src and fak to decrease the expression of downstream akt , -catenin , and mmps .
objective the signalling molecule protein kinase b ( akt ) modulates many cellular processes .
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( pi3k)/akt signalling pathways play important roles in tumour angiogenesis .
the aim of this study was to determine the role of phosphorylated akt ( pakt ) in angiogenesis and its correlation with vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf)-a in gastric adenocarcinoma .
methods tumour tissue and matched healthy gastric mucosa were obtained from patients undergoing surgical resection of gastric adenocarcinoma .
akt and pakt were detected via western blotting .
vegf-a , pakt and cd34 were examined by immunohistochemistry .
results akt and pakt protein levels were significantly higher in gastric cancer tissue than in normal tissue ( n = 48 patients ) .
positive vegf-a immunostaining was significantly associated with pakt immunostaining .
microvessel density was correlated with both vegf-a and pakt positivity .
conclusions phosphorylated akt and vegf-a are involved in angiogenesis of gastric adenocarcinoma , and akt activation may contribute to angiogenesis via vegf-a upregulation .
the pi3k/akt/vegf signalling pathway may be involved in gastric adeno carcinoma .
this study aimed to observe the effects of octreotide ( oct ) on cisplatin resistance reversal of cancer cells in vitro and in nude mice in vivo .
mtt method and flow cytometry were used to investigate the effect of cisplatin , oct or the combination of these two compounds on the proliferation and apoptosis of skov3-ddp cells .
the size and weight of xenograft tumors from the nude mice model were measured .
real-time pcr was used to detect the mrna expression of sstr2 , mdr1 , mrp2 , gst-pi and egfr in skov3/ddp cells following the different treatment .
at the concentration of 2.5-20 g/ml , oct significantly reduced ic50 ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) and promoted apoptosis ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) of skov3-ddp cells ' response to cisplatin .
unchanged expression was found in sstr2 on the skov3/ddp cell in vitro after oct treatment , but increased expression in vivo ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
oct increased gst-pi expression ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) and reduced mrp2 and egfr expression ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) in a dose-dependent manner .
the similar results were obtained in mice in vivo experiment , except the reduced expression of gst-pi .
it is suggested that oct could inhibit ovarian cancer proliferation and promote apoptosis , via the cell surface sstr2 , and reverse cisplatin resistance through inhibition of mrp2 , egfr , and even gst-pi expressions .
epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) is a critical process providing tumor cells with the ability to migrate and escape from the primary tumor and metastasize to distant sites .
recently , emt was shown to be associated with the cancer stem cell ( csc ) phenotype in breast cancer .
snail is a transcription factor that mediates emt in a number of tumor types , including colorectal cancer ( crc ) .
our study was done to determine the role of snail in mediating emt and csc function in crc .
human crc specimens were stained for snail expression , and human crc cell lines were transduced with a retroviral snail construct or vector control .
cell proliferation and chemosensitivity to oxaliplatin of the infected cells were determined by the mtt ( colorimetric 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide ) assay .
migration and invasion were determined in vitro using modified boyden chamber assays .
emt and putative csc markers were analyzed using western blotting .
intravenous injection of tumor cells was done to evaluate their metastatic potential in mice .
snail was overexpressed in human crc surgical specimens .
this overexpression induced emt and a csc-like phenotype in human crc cells and enhanced cell migration and invasion ( p &lt ; 0.002 vs. control ) .
snail overexpression also led to an increase in metastasis formation in vivo ( p &lt ; 0.002 vs. control ) .
furthermore , the snail-overexpressing crc cells were more chemoresistant to oxaliplatin than control cells .
increased snail expression induces emt and the csc-like phenotype in crc cells , which enhance cancer cell invasion and chemoresistance .
thus , snail is a potential therapeutic target in metastatic crc .
the purpose of the study was to evaluate sorafenib ( bay 43-9006 ) derived receptor tyrosine kinase inhibition on tumor progression in murine islet cell tumors .
sorafenib is considered to be a potent inhibitor of tumor angiogenesis and neovascularization in various solid tumors .
rip1tag2 mice were treated in two different groups according to the model of tumor progression : the early treatment group received vehicle or sorafenib from 10 to 14 weeks of age and the late treatment group from week 12 until death .
tumor surface , tumor cell proliferation , and apoptosis were measured in both treatment groups to assess the in vivo effects of sorafenib .
survival was recorded for the late treatment group .
in the early treatment group sorafenib led to a dramatic decrease in tumor volume compared to the control group .
apoptosis was significantly augmented and cell proliferation was inhibited .
as a single therapy sorafenib significantly improved survival in the late treatment group .
conclusion .
sorafenib may provide a new paradigm for the therapy of islet cell tumors .
the hippo signaling pathway inhibits cell growth and regulates organ size through a kinase cascade that leads to the phosphorylation and nuclear exclusion of the growth-promoting transcriptional coactivator yes-associated protein ( yap)/yorkie .
it mediates contact inhibition of cell growth downstream of cadherin adhesion molecules and other cell surface proteins .
contact inhibition is often antagonized by mitogenic growth factor signaling .
we report an important mechanism for this antagonism , inhibition of hippo pathway signaling by mitogenic growth factors .
egf treatment of immortalized mammary cells triggers the rapid translocation of yap into the nucleus along with yap dephosphorylation , both of which depend on lats , the terminal kinase in the hippo pathway .
a small-molecule inhibitor screen of downstream effector pathways shows that egf receptor inhibits the hippo pathway through activation of pi3-kinase ( pi3k ) and phosphoinositide-dependent kinase ( pdk1 ) , but independent of akt activity .
the pi3k-pdk1 pathway also mediates yap nuclear translocation downstream of lysophosphatidic acid and serum as a result of constitutive oncogenic activation of pi3k .
pdk1 associates with the core hippo pathway-kinase complex through the scaffold protein salvador .
the entire hippo core complex dissociates in response to egf signaling in a pi3k-pdk1-dependent manner , leading to inactivation of lats , dephosphorylation of yap , and yap nuclear accumulation and transcriptional activation of its target gene , ctgf .
these findings show that an important activity of mitogenic signaling pathways is to inactivate the growth-inhibitory hippo pathway and provide a mechanism for antagonism between contact inhibition and growth factor action .
objective to observe the anti-tumor recurrent and metastatic efficacy of ru'ai shuhou recipe ( rsr ) on her2 positive breast cancer , to evaluate the effects of rsr on the expressions of matrix metalloproteinases ( mmps ) and the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases ( timps ) in the recurrence and metastasis of her2 positive breast cancer , thus revealing its anti-tumor recurrent and metastatic mechanisms .
methods selected were 30-week-old her2/neu transgenic spontaneous breast cancer mice fvb/neu .
the primary tumor resection was carried out .
after surgery they were randomly divided into the blank control group , the rsr group , the herceptin group , and the combination group ( rsr + herceptin group ) .
the treatment lasted for 4 months .
the inhibition rate of the recurrent tumor volume and the inhibition rate of the lung metastasis were evaluated .
the expressions of matrix metalloproteinase-2 ( mmp-2 ) , matrix metalloproteinase-9 ( mmp-9 ) , tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase ( timp-1 ) , and timp-2 in the recurrent tumor tissue were detected using western blot .
results by the end of the treatment the average recurrent tumor volume was 11.11 +/- 8.71 cm3 in the blank control group and 5.56 +/- 5.55 cm3 of the rsr group , showing statistical difference between the two groups ( p = 0.037 ) .
the average lung metastatic nodule was 16 in the blank control group and 10 in the rsr group .
the inhibition rate of lung metastasis was 37. 85% in the rsr group , but with no statistical significance .
the expression level of activated mmp-2 in the rsr group was down-regulated when compared with the blank control group , the herceptin group , and the combination group ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
the expression of mmp-9 of the rsr group , the herceptin group , and the combination group was significantly down-regulated when compared with the blank control group ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
the expression of mmp-9 of the rsr group and the combination group was further down-regulated when compared with the herceptin group ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
the expressions of both timp-1 and timp-2 of the rsr group , the herceptin group , and the combination group were all up-regulated when compared with the blank control group ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
the increased expression of timp-1 was more significantly in the rsr group and the combination group when compared with the herceptin group ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
it was higher in the combination group than in the rsr group ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
conclusions rsr could inhibit the tumor recurrence of fvb/neu mice .
it could reduce the degradation of extracellular matrix and increase the protective effects of extracellular matrix .
it might achieve its anti-tumor effect through effecting the invasive and metastatic capabilities of breast tumor cells .
bcl-2/e1b 19-kda interacting protein 3 ( bnip3 ) is a proapoptotic protein whose expression level is often low in colorectal cancer ( crc ) cells due to the bnip3 gene promoter dna methylation by dna methyltransferase ( dnmt ) .
it is known that chemotherapy and radiotherapy suppress crc through inducing tumor apoptosis .
however , the molecular mechanisms underlying chemotherapy and radiotherapy-induced apoptosis of crc cells are not well defined .
in this study , we observed that the expression level of bnip3 in colon cancer cells was significantly increased by treatment with therapeutic agents and radiation in vitro .
the bnip3 protein level in crc tissues from patients who received preoperative concurrent chemotherapy was significantly higher than in those who received surgery alone .
furthermore , treatment with chemotherapeutic agents and radiation significantly decreased the dnmt1 expression level and enzymatic activity .
both expression level and activity of dnmt1 were inversely correlated with the expression level of bnip3 in colon carcinoma cells after treatment with chemotherapeutic agents and radiation .
consistent with increased bnip3 expression , chemotherapeutic agents and radiation induced colon carcinoma cell apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner .
based on these observations , we conclude that chemotherapy and radiotherapy inhibit dnmt1 expression to upregulate bnip3 expression to promote crc cell apoptosis .
and , bnip3 may play a role in the caspase-dependent apoptosis pathways , mainly during treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy .
the new concept of keeping primary tumor under control in situ to suppress distant foci sheds light on the novel treatment of metastatic tumor .
hyperthermia is considered as one of the means for controlling tumor growth .
in this study , a novel thermal modality was built to introduce hyperthermia effect on tumor to suppress its growth and progression using 4t1 murine mammary carcinoma , a common animal model of metastatic breast cancer .
a mildly raised temperature ( i.e.39c ) was imposed on the skin surface of the implanted tumor using a thermal heating pad .
periodic heating ( 12 hours per day ) was carried out for 3 days , 7 days , 14 days , and 21 days , respectively .
the tumor growth rate was found significantly decreased in comparison to the control without hyperthermia .
biological evidences associated with tumor angiogenesis and metastasis were examined using histological analyses .
accordingly , the effect of mild hyperthermia on immune cell infiltration into tumors was also investigated .
it was demonstrated that a delayed tumor growth and malignancy progression was achieved by mediating tumor cell apoptosis , vascular injury , degrading metastasis potential and as well as inhibiting the immunosuppressive cell myeloid derived suppressor cells ( mdscs ) recruitment .
further mechanistic studies will be performed to explore the quantitative relationship between tumor progression and thermal dose in the near future .
unlabelled background cell lines are very useful for clinical and basic research .
thus far , only 11 reports have documented the characteristics of ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma cell lines in the literature .
due to the scarcity of information , the establishment of an ovarian malignant tumor cell line with distinctive characteristics is particularly important to study this disease .
thus , this study was undertaken to establish and characterize a new human endometrioid adenocarcinoma cell line of the ovary .
methods the cell line nomh-1 was established from an ovarian tumor of a 44-year-old woman .
features of the cell line studied included morphology , chromosome analysis , heterotransplantation , tumor markers , and chemosensitivity .
results this cell line has been growing well for 232 months and subcultured more than 50 times .
monolayer cultured cells were polygonal in shape , showing a pavement-like arrangement and a tendency to stack without contact inhibition .
they exhibited a human karyotype with a modal chromosomal number in the hypertriploid range .
the cells could be transplanted into the subcutis of nude mice and produced tumors resembling the original tumor .
nomh-1 cells expressed both cea and ca19-9 which were identified immunohistochemically in the original tumor and the heterotransplanted tumor .
the cells were sensitive to paclitaxel , an agent commonly used in the treatment of gynecological cancers .
conclusions nomh-1 is the first ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma cell line in which cea and ca19-9 expression have been defined .
this newly established cell line should be useful for investigating the characteristics of ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma .
the effects of genomic changes in hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) on the occurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) are still unclear , especially in relation to the genotype of hbv .
in this study , we examined the effects of genomic changes in hbv of genotype c2 on the development of hcc .
a total of 318 patients with hbv-associated hcc and 234 patients with chronic hepatitis b ( chb ) were studied .
all of hcc cases were diagnosed histologically and treated with surgical resection .
the whole of the x , s , basal core promoter ( bcp ) and precore regions of the viral genome from sera or liver tissues were sequenced .
all subjects had hbv of genotype c2 .
the prevalence of the t1653 mutation in the x region and the a1896 mutation in the precore region of hbv was significantly higher in the hcc group than in the control chb group ( 22% vs 11% , p = 0.003 ; 50% vs 23% , p &lt ; 0.001 , respectively ) .
moreover , the t1762/a1764 mutations in the bcp region in combination with either t1653 or a1896 were more common in the hcc compared with the chb group ( bcp+x1653 : 18% vs 11% , p = 0.05 ; bcp+pc , 40% vs 15% , p &lt ; 0.001 , respectively ) .
in multivariate analysis , t1653 and a1896 were revealed to be independent risk factors for hcc development .
g1896a in the precore region and c1653t mutation in the x region of genotype c2 hbv are important risk factors for hcc development .
also , the a1762t/g1764a double mutation may act in synergy with c1653t to increase the risk of hcc in patients chronically infected with hbv genotype c2 .
objective this study describes a new method used in the clinical laboratory at hospital israelita albert einstein to detect mutations in exons 8 and 17 of the kit gene in patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
methods genomic dna extraction was performed on 54 samples of peripheral blood or bone marrow from patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
the extracted dna was amplified by polymerase chain reaction and sequenced , and the fragments were analyzed .
results within the analyzed samples , we detected four mutations in exon 8 , two mutations in exon 17 , and mutations or a double mutation in one sample .
conclusion the tests detecting mutations in exon 8 and 17 on the kit gene were successfully standardized .
the test is now included among the routine diagnostics employed for patients at hospital israelita albert einstein clinical laboratory .
in the present study , post-treatment effects of dietary turmeric on markers related to apoptosis , cell proliferation , and inflammation in 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene ( dmba)-induced hamster buccal pouch ( hbp ) tumors were investigated .
tumors were induced by applying 0.5% dmba topically to the hbp three times per week for 12 weeks .
after tumor development , half of the animals continued on the control diet and the other half were shifted to a 1% turmeric diet for 4 weeks .
to rule out dmba discontinuation as a cause of inhibition in tumor growth , dmba treatment was continued during dietary exposure of turmeric in another set of animals until the end of the experiment .
the turmeric diet inhibited tumor growth in animals with or without dmba carcinogen treatment compared to the animals on the control diet .
when compared to hamsters bearing tumors that remained on the control diet , the buccal pouches of hamsters bearing tumors receiving turmeric showed the following results : ( 1 ) decreased cell proliferation ( diminished pcna , cyclin d1 , and bcl-2 ) and pcna labelling index , ( 2 ) enhanced apoptosis ( increased bax , caspase-3 , caspase-9 , and cytochrome c , and decreased survivin ) and apoptotic index , ( 3 ) decreased inflammation ( decreased cox-2 ) , and ( 4 ) decreased mapk activation ( p-erk and p-p38 ) .
these data indicate that tumor growth decreased due to the modulation of cellular pathways associated with cell proliferation and apoptosis .
objective to sort and identify side population ( sp ) cancer stem cells ( csc ) in human prostate cancer ( pca ) cell lines .
methods stem-like cells were isolated from five pca cell lines du145 , ia8 , lncap , tsu-pr and pc-3 using facs based on cd133+ cd44+ immunophenotype and sp in hoechst staining .
the in vitro growth pattern and tumorigenicity of sp stem cells were verified by soft agar colony-formation trial .
lncap/sp cells were selected for further identification of stem cell properties using immunostaining , proliferation and invasion assay .
eventually , tumorigenicity and metastasis ability of lncap/sp were confirmed by xenograft experiments .
results the percentages of cscs of the cd133 cd44 + immunophenotype were extremely low in the five pca cell lines .
on the contrary , the percentages of the isolated sp cells were significantly higher in du145 ( [ 0.15 +/- 0.02]% ) , ia8 ( [ 0.60 +/- 0.07 ]% ) , lncap ( [ 0.8 +/- 0.1]% ) and tsu-prl ( [ 2.0 +/- 0.4]% ) , but none was detected in pc-3 .
besides , ia8/sp , lncap/sp and tsu-prl/sp cells showed a significantly greater colony-forming efficiency than non-side population ( nsp ) cells ( p &lt ; 0.05 ) .
compared with lncap/nsp cells , lncap/sp cells exhibited high expressions of integrin alpha2 , nanog , cd44 , oct4 and abcg2 , remarkably enhanced invasive and proliferative potentials in vitro , and markedly increased tumorigenicity and metastasis ( p &lt ; 0.01 ) .
conclusion sp sorting is more suitable than cd133+ cd44+ selection for enriching cscs from pca cell lines , and lncap/ sp represents a typical csc population .
hm781-36b is an orally administered pan-human epidermal growth factor receptor ( her ) inhibitor .
to explore the role of pan-her inhibitor in breast cancer , we investigated the antitumor effect and mechanisms of hm781-36b in breast cancer cell lines .
six breast cancer cell lines ( bt474 , mda-mb-453 , sk-br-3 , t47d , mcf-7 , and mda-mb-231 ) were tested .
the growth inhibitory effect was assessed using the tetrazolium bromide [ 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazole-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide ] assay .
the cell cycle at various concentrations of hm781-36b was analyzed by flow cytometry , and analysis of downstream molecules was performed by western blot analysis .
interaction of hm781-36b with cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents was analyzed by combination index using calcusyn .
the her2-amplified cells ( sk-br-3 , bt474 , and mda-mb-453 ) were sensitive to hm781-36b ( ic50=0.001 mol/l , 0.0012 mol/l , and 0.0095 mol/l , respectively ) .
hm781-36b induced g1 arrest and resulted in apoptosis .
it reduced the level of p-her2 , p-akt , p-erk , and p-stat3 .
hm781-36b combined with 5-fluorouracil , cisplatin , paclitaxel , or gemcitabine showed a synergistic inhibitory effect on the her2-amplified and on some of the her2-nonamplified breast cancer cells .
hm781-36b could be a promising treatment for her2-amplified breast cancer as a single agent or in combination with cytotoxic agents and can be a candidate for treatment of her2-nonamplified breast cancer in combination with cytotoxic agents .
disruption of contact inhibition and serum afflux that occur after a tissue injury activate cell cycle , which then stops when confluence is reached again .
although the events involved in cell cycle entry have been widely documented , those managing cell cycle exit have remained so far ill defined .
we have identified that the final stage of wound closure is preceded in keratinocytes by a strong accumulation of mir-483-3p , which acts as a mandatory signal triggering cell cycle arrest when confluence is reached .
blocking mir-483-3p accumulation strongly delays cell cycle exit , maintains cells into a proliferative state and retards their differentiation program .
using two models of cell cycle synchronization ( i.e. mechanical injury and serum addition ) , we show that an ectopic upregulation of mir-483-3p blocks cell cycle progression in early g1 phase .
this arrest results from a direct targeting of the cdc25a phosphatase by mir-483-3p , which can be impeded using an anti-mirna against mir-483-3p or a protector that blocks the complex formation between mir-483-3p and the 3'-untranslated region ( utr ) of cdc25a transcript .
we show that the mirna-induced silencing of cdc25a increases the tyrosine phosphorylation status of cdk4/6 cyclin-dependent kinases which , in turn , abolishes cdk4/6 capacity to associate with d-type cyclins .
this prevents cdk4/6 kinases ' activation , impairs downstream events such as cyclin e stimulation and sequesters cells in early g1 .
we propose this new regulatory process of cyclin-cdk association as a general mechanism coupling mirna-mediated cdc25a invalidation to cdk post-transcriptional modifications and cell cycle control .
a new cell line of human ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma ( ccc ) , tu-oc-1 , was established and characterized .
the cells showed a polygonal-shaped morphology and grew in monolayers without contact inhibition and were arranged like a jigsaw puzzle .
the chromosome numbers ranged from 64 to 90 .
a low rate of proliferation was observed , similar to other ccc cell lines tested ( ovtoko , rmg-i , and ovas ) , and the doubling time was 38.4h .
the respective ic50 values of cisplatin and paclitaxel were 12.2m and 58.3nm .
mutational analysis revealed that tu-oc-1 cells harbored a pik3ca mutation at codon 542 ( e542k ) in exon 9 , which is a mutation hot spot on this gene .
we observed that phosphorylated akt protein was overexpressed in tu-oc-1 cells by western blot analysis .
heterotransplantation to nude mice produced tumors that reflected the original .
this cell line may be useful to study the chemoresistant mechanisms of ccc and contribute to novel treatment strategies .
we recently reported that chronic myeloid leukaemia ( cml ) patients harbour high levels of stat5 when they progress to advanced phases of disease .
advanced disease is characterized by an increased incidence of bcr-abl1 mutations .
we now describe a highly significant correlation between stat5 expression and the incidence of bcr-abl1 mutations in primary cml .
forced expression of stat5 in murine bcr-abl1 transformed cells sufficed to enhance the production of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) and to trigger dna damage .
stat5-mediated ros production is independent of jak2 but requires concomitant bcr-abl1 signalling as forced stat5 expression in untransformed bcr-abl1 negative cells has no impact on ros levels .
only within the context of a bcr-abl1 positive cell does stat5 transcriptionally regulate a target gene or set of genes that causes the enhanced ros production .
our study suggests the existence of a feed-forward loop accelerating disease progression , in which bcr-abl1 enhances its own mutation rate in a stat5-ros dependent manner .
this model explains the increased occurrence of inhibitor-resistant bcr-abl1 mutations in advanced disease stages driven and characterized by high stat5 expression .
transforming growth factor beta ( tgf- ) signaling has been implicated in driving tumor progression and metastasis by inducing stem cell-like features in some human cancer cell lines .
in this study , we have utilized a novel murine cell line nmumg-st , which acquired cancer stem cell ( csc ) phenotypes during spontaneous transformation of the untransformed murine mammary cell line nmumg , to investigate the role of autocrine tgf- signaling in regulating their survival , metastatic ability , and the maintenance of cancer stem cell characteristics .
we have retrovirally transduced a dominant-negative tgf- type ii receptor ( dnrii ) into the nmumg-st cell to abrogate autocrine tgf- signaling .
the expression of dnrii reduced tgf- sensitivity of the nmumg-st cells in various cell-based assays .
the blockade of autocrine tgf- signaling reduced the ability of the cell to grow anchorage-independently and to resist serum deprivation-induced apoptosis .
these phenotypes were associated with reduced levels of active and phosphorylated akt and erk , and gli1 expression suggesting that these pathways contribute to the growth and survival of this model system .
more interestingly , the abrogation of autocrine tgf- signaling also led to the attenuation of several features associated with mammary stem cells including epithelial-mesenchymal transition , mammosphere formation , and expression of stem cell markers .
when xenografted in athymic nude mice , the dnrii cells were also found to undergo apoptosis and induced significantly lower lung metastasis burden than the control cells even though they formed similar size of xenograft tumors .
thus , our results indicate that autocrine tgf- signaling is involved in the maintenance and survival of stem-like cell population resulting in the enhanced metastatic ability of the murine breast cancer cells .
systemic oxidative stress is associated with a wide range of pathological conditions .
oxidative dna damage is frequently measured in circulating lymphocytes .
mitochondrial dna ( mtdna ) is known to be more sensitive to oxidative damage than nuclear dna but is rarely used for direct measurement of dna damage in clinical studies .
based on the supercoiling-sensitive real-time pcr method , we propose a new approach for the noninvasive monitoring of systemic oxidative stress by quantifying the mtdna structural damage and copy number change in isolated lymphocytes in a single test .
we show that lymphocytes have significantly less mtdna content and relatively lower baseline levels of damage than cancer cell lines .
in an ex vivo challenge experiment , we demonstrate , for the first time , that exogenous h2o2 induces a significant increase in mtdna damage in lymphocytes from healthy individuals , but no repair activity is observed after 1 h recovery .
we further demonstrate that whole blood may serve as a convenient alternative to the isolated lymphocytes in mtdna analysis .
thus , the blood analysis with the multiple mtdna end-points proposed in the current study may provide a simple and sensitive test to interrogate the nature and extent of systemic oxidative stress for a broad spectrum of clinical investigations .
metastases in the sellar region are rare and are frequently found incidentally or in necropsies .
only 7% are reported to be symptomatic .
diabetes insipidus , anterior pituitary dysfunction , visual field defects , headache/pain and ophthalmoplegia are the most commonly reported symptoms .
we present the cases of two male patients with a small-cell lung carcinoma whose first clinical symptoms were due to pituitary metastasis .
one case presented with symptoms of cavernous sinus invasion and panhypopituitarism and the other case with diabetes insipidus .
both patients had a rapid progression of their disease despite chemotherapy and died after a few months .
pituitary metastases occur most commonly with breast cancer in women and lung cancer in men .
the presence of polyuria and polydipsia in an oncologic patient should alert the physician for diabetes insipidus and , if confirmed , an imaging procedure of the pituitary gland is mandatory .
treatment for these tumors is often multimodal and includes surgery , radiation therapy , chemotherapy and hormone replacement .
although surgical series have not shown any significant survival benefits given by tumor resection , the patient's quality of life may be improved .
within the family of protein kinase c ( pkc ) molecules , the novel isoform prkce ( pkc ) acts as a bona fide oncogene in in vitro and in vivo models of tumorigenesis .
previous studies have reported expression of pkc in breast , prostate and lung tumors above that of normal adjacent tissue .
data from the cancer genome atlas suggest increased copy number of prkce in triple negative breast cancer ( tnbc ) .
we find that overexpression of pkc in a non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cell line is sufficient to overcome contact inhibition and results in the formation of cellular foci .
correspondingly , inhibition of pkc in a tnbc cell model results in growth defects in two-dimensional ( 2d ) and three-dimensional ( 3d ) culture conditions and orthotopic xenografts .
using stable isotope labeling of amino acids in a cell culture phosphoproteomic approach , we find that ctnnd1/p120ctn phosphorylation at serine 268 ( p-s268 ) occurs in a strictly pkc-dependent manner , and that loss of pkc signaling in tnbc cells leads to reversal of mesenchymal morphology and signaling .
in a model of ras activation , inhibition of pkc is sufficient to block mesenchymal cell morphology .
finally , treatment with a pkc atp mimetic inhibitor , pf-5263555 , recapitulates genetic loss of function experiments impairing p120ctn phosphorylation as well as compromising tnbc cell growth in vitro and in vivo .
we demonstrate pkc as a tractable therapeutic target for tnbc , where p120ctn phosphorylation may serve as a readout for monitoring patient response.oncogene advance online publication , 1 april 2013 ; doi:10.1038/onc.2013.91 .
cell migration plays important roles in natural processes involving embryonic development , inflammation , wound healing , cancer metastasis and angiogenesis .
cell migration on various biomaterials is also believed to improve the rate of wound healing and implant therapies in the tissue-engineering field .
this study measured the distance traversed , or mileage , of mouse fibroblasts on a silk fibroin surface .
fibroblasts on the fibroin surface moved with better progress during 24 h than cells on collagen or fibronectin surfaces .
results obtained by quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ( qrt-pcr ) revealed that fibroblasts on the fibroin surface expressed transforming growth factor -induced protein ( tgfbi ) , which is an extracellular matrix ( ecm ) protein , stronger than on other surfaces in the early cell-culture stages .
these results demonstrate that the fibroin surface shows higher potential to enhance cell migration and the production of ecm than a collagen or fibronectin surface .
background angiogenesis is an essential process in cancer growth maintenance , and metastasis .
angiopoietin-2 promotes tumor angiogenesis by priming the vasculature and potentiating the effects of cytokines at the front of active neovascularization .
enhanced expression of angiopoietin-2 has been reported in lung cancer tissue .
survivin is one of the inhibitors of apoptosis protein that has been shown to play a key role in cancer progression , and in tumor angiogenesis .
also plays a key role in tumor cell resistance to anticancer agents and ionizing radiation .
aim to measure the serum levels of angiopoietin-2 and survivin as possible angiogenic factors in lung cancer patients with the assessment of their interrelationships and clinical significance .
patients and methods patients with lung cancer as nsclc ( n=70 ) and healthy volunteers ( n=10 ) were enrolled .
serum angiopoietin-2 and survivin concentrations were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( eliza ) .
results median serum angiopoietin-2 levels with lung cancer ( 2730pg/ml ) ranged from 1171 to 6541pg/ml was higher than the median of the control group ( 1795pg/ml ) ranged from 1076 to 2730/ml , p&lt;0.001 .
median serum survivin levels were also higher in patients with lung cancer ( 53.0pg/ml ) ranged from 39.3 to 96.3pg/ml than the median of the control group ( 48.8pg/ml ) ranged from 38.0 to 74.6pg/ml , but did not reach statistical significance p=0.206 .
in all patients with lung cancer , serum angiopoietin-2 was not significantly correlated with survivin ( r=0.073 , p=0.657 ) .
neither serum angiopoietin-2 nor survivin showed significant relation with the serum angiopoietin-2 or survivin levels depending on the cell types , stage progression , and metastasis among the patients with nsclc .
conclusions our study suggests that serum angiopoietin-2 is a useful marker for the diagnosis of nsclc by eliza technique .
understanding how arsenic exacts its diverse , global disease burden is hampered by a limited understanding of the particular biological pathways that are disrupted by arsenic and underlie pathogenesis .
a reductionist view would predict that a small number of basic pathways are generally perturbed by arsenic , and manifest as diverse diseases .
following an initial observation that arsenite-exposed cells in culture acidify their media more rapidly than control cells , the report here shows that low level exposure to arsenite ( 75ppb ) is sufficient to induce aerobic glycolysis ( the warburg effect ) as a generalized phenomenon in cultured human primary cells and cell lines .
expanded studies in one such cell line , the non-malignant pulmonary epithelial line , beas-2b , established that the arsenite-induced warburg effect was associated with increased accumulation of intracellular and extracellular lactate , an increased rate of extracellular acidification , and inhibition by the non-metabolized glucose analog , 2-deoxy-d-glucose .
associated with the induction of aerobic glycolysis was a pathway-wide induction of glycolysis gene expression , as well as protein accumulation of an established glycolysis master-regulator , hypoxia-inducible factor 1a .
arsenite-induced alteration of energy production in human cells represents the type of fundamental perturbation that could extend to many tissue targets and diseases .
the dna mismatch repair ( mmr ) pathway corrects specific types of dna replication errors that affect microsatellites and thus is critical for maintaining genomic integrity .
the genes of the mmr pathway are highly conserved across different organisms .
likewise , defective mmr function universally results in microsatellite instability ( msi ) which is a hallmark of certain types of cancer associated with the mendelian disorder hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer .
( lynch syndrome ) .
to identify previously unrecognized deleted genes or loci that can lead to msi , we developed a functional genomics screen utilizing a plasmid containing a microsatellite sequence that is a host spot for msi mutations and the comprehensive homozygous diploid deletion mutant resource for saccharomyces cerevisiae .
this pool represents a collection of non-essential homozygous yeast diploid ( 2n ) mutants in which there are deletions for over four thousand yeast open reading frames ( orfs ) .
from our screen , we identified a deletion mutant strain of the pau24 gene that leads to msi .
in a series of validation experiments , we determined that this pau24 mutant strain had an increased msi-specific mutation rate in comparison to the original background wildtype strain , other deletion mutants and comparable to a mmr mutant involving the mlh1 gene .
likewise , in yeast strains with a deletion of pau24 , we identified specific de novo indel mutations that occurred within the targeted microsatellite used for this screen .
the current study was undertaken to study the effect of a macerated extract of nigella sativa seeds in normal as well as in tumour bearing mice against gamma radiation-induced cellular damage to normal tissues .
this was done to mimic the clinical setting where in , normal tissues of cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy are exposed to the deleterious effects of radiation .
the protection of cellular dna was analysed in peripheral blood leucocytes of whole body irradiated mice following pretreatment with macerated extract of nigella sativa seeds ( 100 mg/kg ) , using alkaline comet assay , and also estimating biochemical and blood parameters such as levels of antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase , thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and protein oxidation in organs such as spleen , liver , brain and intestine haemoglobin and total leucocyte count , respectively .
the results showed that the macerated extract of nigella sativa seeds protected the liver , spleen , brain and intestines both in normal as well as tumour bearing mice .
this study concludes that macerated extract of nigella sativa seeds has protective effects against radiation-induced damage and biochemical alterations which could be attributed to the ability to scavenge free radicals and its antioxidant properties .
hence macerated extract of nigella sativa seeds , could be used in combination with radiation to protect against oxidative stress in normal tissues and improving the quality of life of cancer patients by mitigating unwanted side effects of radiation in normal tissues .
background in this paper we propose a chemical physics mechanism for the initiation of the glycolytic switch commonly known as the warburg hypothesis , whereby glycolytic activity terminating in lactate continues even in well-oxygenated cells .
we show that this may result in cancer via mitotic failure , recasting the current conception of the warburg effect as a metabolic dysregulation consequent to cancer , to a biophysical defect that may contribute to cancer initiation .
model our model is based on analogs of thermodynamic concepts that tie non-equilibrium fluid dynamics ultimately to metabolic imbalance , disrupted microtubule dynamics , and finally , genomic instability , from which cancers can arise .
specifically , we discuss how an analog of non-equilibrium rayleigh-benard convection can result in glycolytic oscillations and cause a cell to become locked into a higher-entropy state characteristic of cancer .
conclusions a quantitative model is presented that attributes the well-known warburg effect to a biophysical mechanism driven by a convective disturbance in the cell .
contrary to current understanding , this effect may precipitate cancer development , rather than follow from it , providing new insights into carcinogenesis , cancer treatment , and prevention .
the green fluorescent protein ( gfp ) is the most commonly used reporter protein for monitoring gene expression and protein localization in a variety of living and fixed cells , including not only prokaryotes , but also eukaryotes , e.g. , yeasts , mammals , plants and fish .
in general , it is thought that gfp is nontoxic to cells , although there are some reports on the side effect of gfp .
further , details of the molecular mechanism concerning the side effect of gfp remain unclear .
here we show that ku80 , but not xrcc4 , plays an important role in the mechanism of the resistance to cytotoxicity induced by enhanced gfp ( egfp ) .
egfp inhibited both cell proliferation and colony formation , and induced cell death in ku80-deficient hamster cells , i.e. , xrs-6 cells .
in addition , ku80 attenuated egfp-induced cytotoxicity in the xrs-6 cells .
no egfp-induced cytotoxicity was observed in the nhej core protein xrcc4-deficient hamster cells , i.e. , xr-1 cells .
furthermore , egfp markedly enhanced x-ray-induced cytotoxicity in the xrs-6 cells .
these results suggest that ku80 plays a key role in the novel nhej-independent defense mechanism against egfp-induced cytotoxicity .
caution should be taken in considering of the potential influence by the stress response mechanism , namely , the ku80-dependent elimination mechanism of egfp-induced cytotoxicity , being activated , even when using egfp-expressing cells in which ku80 functions normally .
as a member of peroxiredoxin ( prx ) family , prxiii is predominantly located in mitochondria and plays an important role as a scavenger of reactive oxygen species ( ros ) .
since previous reports demonstrated over-expression of prxiii in cervical cancer , we conducted the present study to investigate the significance of prxiii in cervical cancer development and/or progression .
cervical cancer cells were cultured from tissues derived from cervical cancer patients .
after successful knockdown of prxiii expression by small interfering rna , we evaluated ros level , viable cell number , and apoptosis of cervical cancer cells along with the culture time .
the production of ros was increased in cervical cancer cells as compared with normal cervical epithelia .
knockdown of prxiii expression induced up-regulation of other prx members including prxi , prxii , and prxv .
ros level was higher in down-regulated cervical cancer cells than in controls and the difference was increasing with culture time .
we also observed increased apoptosis and decreased viable cell number in down-regulated cervical cancer cells .
our results suggest that prxiii is an indispensable ros scavenger , which protects tumor cells against oxidative damage and subsequent apoptosis .
cellular senescence , an irreversible cell cycle arrest induced by a diversity of stimuli , has been considered as an innate tumor suppressing mechanism with implications and applications in cancer therapy .
using a targeted proteomics approach , we show that fibroblasts induced into senescence by expression of oncogenic ras exhibit a decrease of global acetylation on all core histones , consistent with formation of senescence-associated heterochromatic foci .
we also detected clear increases in repressive markers ( e.g. &gt;50% elevation of h3k27me2/3 ) along with decreases in histone marks associated with increased transcriptional expression/elongation ( e.g .
h3k36me2/3 ) .
despite the increases in repressive marks of chromatin , 179 loci ( of 2206 total ) were found to be upregulated by global quantitative proteomics .
the changes in the cytosolic proteome indicated an upregulation of mitochondrial proteins and downregulation of proteins involved in glycolysis .
these alterations in primary metabolism are opposite to the well-known warburg effect observed in cancer cells .
this study significantly improves our understanding of stress-induced senescence and provides a potential application for triggering it in antiproliferative strategies that target the primary metabolism in cancer cells .
hypoxia-inducible factor-1 ( hif-1 ) plays a critical role in reprogramming cancer metabolism toward aerobic glycolysis ( i.e. , the warburg effect ) , which is critical to supplying cancer cells with the biomass needed for proliferation .
previous studies have shown that cetuximab , an egf receptor-blocking monoclonal antibody , downregulates the alpha subunit of hif-1 ( hif-1 ) through the inhibition of egf receptor downstream cell signaling and that downregulation of hif-1 is required for cetuximab-induced antiproliferative effects .
however , the mechanism underlying these actions has yet to be identified .
in this study , we used the seahorse xf96 extracellular flux analyzer to assess the effect of cetuximab treatment on changes in glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration , the two major energy-producing pathways , in live cells .
we found that cetuximab downregulated lactate dehydrogenase a ( ldh-a ) and inhibited glycolysis in cetuximab-sensitive head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( hnscc ) cells in an hif-1 downregulation-dependent manner .
hnscc cells with acquired cetuximab resistance expressed a high level of hif-1 and were highly glycolytic .
overexpression of a hif-1 mutant ( hif-1/odd ) conferred resistance to cetuximab-induced g1 phase cell-cycle arrest , which could be overcome by knockdown of ldh-a expression .
inhibition of ldh-a activity with oxamate enhanced the response of cetuximab-resistant cells to cetuximab .
cetuximab had no noticeable inhibitory effect on glycolysis in nontransformed cells .
these findings provide novel mechanistic insights into cetuximab-induced cell-cycle arrest from the perspective of cancer metabolism and suggest novel strategies for enhancing cetuximab response .
oncogene-induced senescence is now recognized as being an important mechanism in protecting against cancer .
the phenotypic consequences , i.e. , the inhibition of cell proliferation , are well described in model systems and specific events/key players defined .
however , there is still the need to understand , at a more global level , the network of events involved both in terms of cause and consequence .
this paper shows the power of systematic proteomic analyses , both targeted and global , in addressing such biological questions , highlighting the widespread nature of histone acetylation changes , and the opposite metabolic changes to those seen in the warburg effect .
context papillary thyroid carcinoma ( ptc ) is the most frequent thyroid tumor and is responsible for the overall increase in thyroid cancer incidence .
s100a11 ( calgizzarin ) , a member of the s100 ca(2+)-binding protein family , is involved in several different biological processes .
s100a11 has been found up-regulated in ptc , both at the mrna and protein levels .
objective through a combination of expression analysis and functional in vitro and in vivo studies , we have attempted to gain insight into the relevance of s100a11 overexpression in ptc biology .
design the expression of the s100a11 gene in ptc was investigated in several gene expression data sets .
the effect of s100a11 silencing on the hallmarks of the malignant phenotype of several ptc-derived cell lines was investigated .
in nih3t3 cells , the cooperation of s100a11 with the different ptc-specific oncogenes was assessed .
results we found that the s100a11 gene expression is frequently up-regulated in ptc , anaplastic thyroid carcinoma , but not in follicular thyroid carcinoma .
s100a11 overexpression was also detected in ptc-derived cell lines , which were then used for functional studies .
s100a11 silencing in ptc-derived cell lines did not affect cell proliferation , whereas it reduced the loss of contact inhibition , anchorage-independent growth , and resistance to anoikis .
cotransfection experiments in nih3t3 cells showed that overexpression of the s100a11 gene was able to enhance the transforming capabilities of the different ptc-associated oncogenes by affecting the loss of contact inhibition , anchorage-independent growth , and in vivo tumor formation .
conclusion our data indicate that s100a11 overexpression exerts a protumoral functional role in ptc pathogenesis .
background yes associated protein ( yap ) has been implicated in the control of organ size by regulating cell proliferation and survival .
yap is a transcriptional coactivator that controls cellular responses through interaction with tead transcription factors in the nucleus , while its transcriptional functions are inhibited by phosphorylation-dependent translocation to the cytosol .
yap overexpression has been associated with different types of cancer , such as lung , skin , prostate , ovary and liver cancer .
recently , yap was linked to e-cadherin-dependent regulation of contact inhibition in breast cancer cells .
results in this study we examined yap protein expression and cellular localization in 237 cases of human invasive breast cancer by immunohistochemistry and related its expression to clinicopathological features and e-cadherin expression .
we observed that invasive lobular carcinoma is characterized by higher expression levels of both nuclear and cytosolic yap ( p&lt;0.001 ) .
nuclear yap expression did not associate with other variables such as lymph node involvement , tumor grade , tumor size , mitotic activity or the molecular sub-types of invasive breast cancer .
we observed that high nuclear and cytosolic yap expression are associated with the e-cadherin deficient breast cancer subtype ilc ( p&lt;0.001 ) and cell lines derived from human breast cancers and conditional mouse models of human lobular breast cancer .
conclusions since our data indicate that nuclear yap localization is more common in breast cancers lacking functional adherens junctions , it suggests that yap-mediated transcription may be involved in the development and progression of invasive lobular breast cancer .
the aim of this study was to investigate the inhibitory effects of rutaecarpine on dna strand breaks and apoptosis induced by hydrogen peroxide ( h2o2 ) in murine hepa-1c1c7 cells .
oxidative dna damage was estimated by nuclear condensation assessment , fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis , and comet assay .
rutaecarpine inhibited cell death induced by 500 m h2o2 , as assessed by 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole ( dapi ) staining .
treatment with rutaecarpine reduced the number of dna strand breaks induced by h2o2 , as assessed by dapi staining and comet assay , and increased quinone reductase , phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase , and pakt protein levels , as assessed by western blotting .
although the immense efforts have been made for cancer prevention , early diagnosis , and treatment , cancer morbidity and mortality has not been decreased during last forty years .
especially , lung cancer is top-ranked in cancer-associated human death .
therefore , effective strategy is strongly required for the management of lung cancer .
in the present study , we found that novel daphnane diterpenoids , yuanhualine ( yl ) , yuanhuahine ( yh ) and yuanhuagine ( yg ) isolated from the flower of daphne genkwa ( thymelaeaceae ) , exhibited potent anti-proliferative activities against human lung a549 cells with the ic50 values of 7.0 , 15.2 and 24.7 nm , respectively .
flow cytometric analysis revealed that the daphnane diterpenoids induced cell-cycle arrest in the g0/g1 as well as g2/m phase in a549 cells .
the cell-cycle arrests were well correlated with the expression of checkpoint proteins including the up-regulation of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 and p53 and down-regulation of cyclin a , cyclin b1 , cyclin e , cyclin dependent kinase 4 , cdc2 , phosphorylation of rb and cmyc expression .
in the analysis of signal transduction molecules , the daphnane diterpenoids suppressed the activation of akt , stat3 and src in human lung cancer cells .
the daphnane diterpenoids also exerted the potent anti-proliferative activity against anticancer-drug resistant cancer cells including gemcitabine-resistant a549 , gefitinib- , erlotinib-resistant h292 cells .
synergistic effects in the growth inhibition were also observed when yuanhualine was combined with gemcitabine , gefitinib or erlotinib in a549 cells .
taken together , these findings suggest that the novel daphnane diterpenoids might provide lead candidates for the development of therapeutic agents for human lung cancers .
epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) gene amplification and overexpression are commonly present in glioblastoma , and confer advantages of growth , invasiveness and radio/chemotherapy-resistance for tumour cells .
here , we assessed the role of egfr activation for downstream mitogenic signalling in the commonly used glioblastoma cell line u251 .
despite the high expression level , activation of egfr under standard culture conditions was low .
intact egfr function was verified by the rapid phosphorylation of egfr and downstream mitogen-activated protein(map) kinase erk1/2 upon addition of exogenous egf to serum-starved cells .
by contrast , addition of fetal bovine serum ( fbs ) activated downstream erk1/2 via the map kinase kinase without phosphorylating egfr .
a phosphoreceptor tyrosine kinase array showed fbs-induced activation of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor ( igf-1r),and the igf-1r inhibitor ag1024 inhibited fbs-induced phosphorylation of erk1/2 , implying igf-1r as the major driver of fbs-associated mitogenic signalling in the absence of exogenous egf .
these findings have important implications for in vitro drug testing in glioblastoma .
moreover , activation of erk1/2 was also strongly influenced by growth state and cell density of u251 cultures .
re-seeding exponentially growing cultures at high cell density induced p27/cdkn1b expression and suppressed p-erk1/2 indicating a certain regulation of proliferation by contact inhibition .
strikingly , highly activated erk1/2 signalling and cell cycle progression occurred when cells were released from plateau phase regardless of high seeding density .
this phenomenon might implicate a proliferation response in the early recurrence observed after clinical therapy in glioblastoma patients .
however , whether it will recapitulate in vivo remains to be demonstrated .
accumulating data suggest arsenic may be an endocrine disruptor and tentatively linked to breast cancer by some studies .
therefore , we tested the effects of chronic inorganic arsenic exposure on the normal estrogen receptor ( er)-negative breast epithelial cell line , mcf-10a .
cells were chronically exposed to a low-level arsenite ( 500nm ) for up to 24weeks .
markers of cancer cell phenotype and the expression of critical genes relevant to breast cancer or stem cells ( scs ) were examined .
after 24weeks , chronic arsenic-exposed breast epithelial ( cabe ) cells showed increases in secreted mmp activity , colony formation , invasion , and proliferation rate , indicating an acquired cancer cell phenotype .
these cabe cells presented with basal-like breast cancer characteristics , including er- , her-2 , and progesterone receptor negativity , and overexpression of k5 and p63 .
putative cd44(+)/cd24(-/low) breast scs were increased to 80% over control in cabe cells .
cabe cells also formed multilayer cell mounds , indicative of loss of contact inhibition .
these mounds showed high levels of k5 and p63 , indicating the potential presence of cancer stem cells ( cscs ) .
epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition occurred during arsenic exposure .
overexpression of aromatase , a key rate-limiting enzyme in estrogen synthesis , occurred with arsenic starting early on in exposure .
levels of 17-estradiol increased in cabe cells and their conditioned medium .
the aromatase inhibitor letrozole abolished arsenic-induced increases in 17-estradiol production and reversed cancer cell phenotype .
thus , chronic arsenic exposure drives human breast epithelia into a cancer cell phenotype with an apparent overabundance of putative cscs .
arsenic appears to transform breast epithelia through overexpression of aromatase , thereby activating oncogenic processes independent of er .
metabolic reprogramming in cancer is manifested by persistent aerobic glycolysis and suppression of mitochondrial function and is known as the warburg effect .
the warburg effect contributes to cancer progression and is considered to be a promising therapeutic target .
understanding the mechanisms used by cancer cells to suppress their mitochondria may lead to development of new approaches to reverse metabolic reprogramming .
we have evaluated mitochondrial function and morphology in poorly respiring lm7 and 143b osteosarcoma ( os ) cell lines showing the warburg effect in comparison with actively respiring saos2 and hos os cells and noncancerous osteoblastic hfob cells .
in lm7 and 143b cells , we detected markers of the mitochondrial permeability transition ( mpt ) , such as mitochondrial swelling , depolarization , and membrane permeabilization .
in addition , we detected mitochondrial swelling in human os xenografts in mice and archival human os specimens using electron microscopy .
the mpt inhibitor sanglifehrin a reversed mpt markers and increased respiration in lm7 and 143b cells .
our data suggest that the mpt may play a role in suppression of mitochondrial function , contributing to the warburg effect in cancer .
cancer cells require glucose to support their rapid growth through a process known as aerobic glycolysis , or the warburg effect .
as in ovarian cancer cells , increased metabolic activity and glucose concentration has been linked to aggressiveness of cancer .
however , it is unclear as to whether targeting the glycolytic pathway may kill the malignant cells and likely have broad therapeutic implications against ovarian cancer metastasis .
in the present research , we found that ef24 , a hif-1 inhibitor , could significantly block glucose uptake , the rate of glycolysis , and lactate production compared with vehicle treatment in skov-3 , a2780 and ovcar-3 cells .
these results might possibly contribute to the further observation that ef24 could inhibit ovarian cancer cell migration and invasion from wound healing and transwell assays .
furthermore , as an important mediator of glucose metabolism , glucose transporter 1 ( glut1 ) was found to contribute to the function of ef24 in both energy metabolism and metastasis .
to examine the effect of ef24 and the mediated role of glut1 in vivo in a xenograph subcutaneous tumor model , intraperitoneal metastasis and lung metastasis model were introduced .
our results indicated that ef24 treatment could inhibit tumor growth , intraperitoneal metastasis and lung metastasis of skov-3 cells , and glut1 is a possible mediator for the role of ef24 .
in conclusion , our results highlight that an anti-cancer reagent with an inhibiting effect on energy metabolism could inhibit metastasis , and ef24 is a possible candidate for anti-metastasis therapeutic applications for ovarian cancer .
one classical feature of cancer cells is their metabolic acquisition of a highly glycolytic phenotype .
carbon monoxide ( co ) , one of the products of the cytoprotective molecule heme oxygenase-1 ( ho-1 ) in cancer cells , has been implicated in carcinogenesis and therapeutic resistance .
however , the functional contributions of co and ho-1 to these processes are poorly defined .
in human prostate cancers , we found that ho-1 was nuclear localized in malignant cells , with low enzymatic activity in moderately differentiated tumors correlating with relatively worse clinical outcomes .
exposure to co sensitized prostate cancer cells but not normal cells to chemotherapy , with growth arrest and apoptosis induced in vivo in part through mitotic catastrophe .
co targeted mitochondria activity in cancer cells as evidenced by higher oxygen consumption , free radical generation , and mitochondrial collapse .
collectively , our findings indicated that co transiently induces an anti-warburg effect by rapidly fueling cancer cell bioenergetics , ultimately resulting in metabolic exhaustion .
metastasis is the most lethal attribute of human malignancy .
high-level expression of survivin is involved in both carcinogenesis and angiogenesis in cancer .
previous studies indicate that a mutation of the threonine residue at position 34 ( thr34ala ) of survivin generates a dominant-negative mutant that induces apoptosis , inhibits angiogenesis , and suppresses highly metastatic breast carcinoma in mouse models .
we investigated the efficacy of gene therapy with a survivin dominant-negative mutant and possible factors related to lymph node metastasis .
the metastasis rate was compared between each group in order to find a survivin-targeted therapy against lymphangiogenesis in its earliest stages .
we established lymph node metastasis models and treated animals with h22 tumors with lip-msurvivint34a ( lip-ms ) , lip-plasmid ( lip-p ) , or normal saline ( ns ) .
eight days after the last dose , five randomly chosen mice from each group were sacrificed .
we detected the apoptotic index , microvessel density ( mvd ) , lymphatic microvessel density ( lmvd ) , and the expression of vegf-d with immunohistochemistry .
after the remaining animals were sacrificed , we compared the tumor-infiltrated lymph nodes in each group .
administration of msurvivint34a plasmid complexed with cationic liposome ( dotap/chol ) resulted in the efficacious inhibition of tumor growth and lymph node metastasis within the mouse h22 tumor model .
these responses were associated with tumor cell apoptosis , and angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis inhibition .
our results suggested that lip-msurvivint34a induced apoptosis and inhibited tumor angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis , thus suppressing tumor growth and lymphatic metastasis .
the msurvivint34a survivin mutant is a promising strategy of gene therapy to inhibit lymphatic metastasis .
pyruvate kinase m2 ( pkm2 ) is a key player in the warburg effect of cancer cells .
however , the mechanisms of regulating pkm2 are not fully elucidated .
here , we identified the protein-serine/threonine kinase pim2 , a known oncogene , as a novel binding partner of pkm2 .
the interaction between pim2 and pkm2 was confirmed by multiple biochemical approaches in vitro and in cultured cells .
importantly , we found that pim2 could directly phosphorylate pkm2 on the thr-454 residue , resulting in an increase of pkm2 protein levels .
compared with wild type , pkm2 with the phosphorylation-defective mutation displayed a reduced effect on glycolysis , co-activating hif-1 and -catenin , and cell proliferation , while enhancing mitochondrial respiration of cancer cells .
these findings demonstrate that pim2-dependent phosphorylation of pkm2 is critical for regulating the warburg effect in cancer , highlighting pim2 as a potential therapeutic target .
glioblastoma multiforme is the most aggressive primary brain tumor in adults .
overexpression of the egf receptor ( egfr ) is recognized as a widespread oncogenic signature in glioblastoma multiforme , but the complexity of its contributions is not fully understood , nor the most effective ways to leverage anti-egfr therapy in this setting .
hypoxia is known to drive the aggressive character of glioblastoma multiforme by promoting aerobic glycolysis rather than pyruvate oxidation carried out in mitochondria ( oxphos ) , a phenomenon termed the warburg effect , which is a general feature of oncogenesis .
in this study , we report that hypoxia drives expression of the pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase ( pdk1 ) and egfr along with the hypoxia-inducing factor ( hif)-1 in human glioblastoma multiforme cells .
pdk1 is a hif-1-regulated gene and our findings indicated that hypoxia-induced pdk1 expression may promote egfr activation , initiating a feed-forward loop that can sustain malignant progression .
rnai-mediated attenuation of pdk1 and egfr lowered pdk1-egfr activation and decreased hif-1 expression , shifting the warburg phenotype to oxphos and inhibiting glioblastoma multiforme growth and proliferation .
in clinical specimens of glioblastoma multiforme , we found that immunohistochemical expression of pdk1 , egfr , and hif-1 were elevated in glioblastoma multiforme specimens when compared with normal brain tissues .
collectively , our studies establish pdk1 as a key driver and candidate therapeutic target in glioblastoma multiforme .
background anti-angiogenic treatment of glioblastoma characteristically results in therapy resistance and tumor progression via diffuse infiltration .
monitoring tumor progression in these patients is thwarted because therapy results in tumor invisibility in contrast-enhanced ( ce ) mri .
to address this problem , we examined whether tumor progression could be monitored by metabolic mapping using ( 1)h mr spectroscopic imaging ( mrsi ) .
methods we treated groups of balb/c nu/nu mice carrying different orthotopic diffuse-infiltrative glioblastoma xenografts with bevacizumab ( anti-vascular endothelial growth factor [ vegf ] antibody , n = 13 ) , cabozantinib ( combined vegf receptor 2/c-met tyrosine kinase inhibitor , n = 11 ) , or placebo ( n = 15 ) and compared ce-mri with mrs-derived metabolic maps before , during , and after treatment .
metabolic maps and ce-mris were subsequently correlated to histology and immunohistochemistry .
results in vivo imaging of choline/n-acetyl aspartate ratios via multivoxel mrs is better able to evaluate response to therapy than ce-mri .
lactate imaging revealed that diffuse infiltrative areas in glioblastoma xenografts did not present with excessive glycolysis .
in contrast , glycolysis was observed in hypoxic areas in angiogenesis-dependent compact regions of glioma only , especially after anti-angiogenic treatment .
conclusion our data present mrsi as a powerful and feasible approach that is superior to ce-mri and may provide handles for optimizing treatment of glioma .
furthermore , we show that glycolysis is more prominent in hypoxic areas than in areas of diffuse infiltrative growth .
the warburg hypothesis of persisting glycolysis in tumors under normoxic conditions may thus not be valid for diffuse glioma .
metastatic breast tumors undergo epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition ( emt ) , which renders them resistant to therapies targeted to the primary cancers .
the mechanistic link between mtdna ( mitochondrial dna ) reduction , often seen in breast cancer patients , and emt is unknown .
we demonstrate that reducing mtdna content in human mammary epithelial cells ( hmecs ) activates calcineurin ( cn)-dependent mitochondrial retrograde signaling pathway , which induces emt-like reprogramming to fibroblastic morphology , loss of cell polarity , contact inhibition and acquired migratory and invasive phenotype .
notably , mtdna reduction generates breast cancer stem cells .
in addition to retrograde signaling markers , there is an induction of mesenchymal genes but loss of epithelial markers in these cells .
the changes are reversed by either restoring the mtdna content or knockdown of cna mrna , indicating the causal role of retrograde signaling in emt .
our results point to a new therapeutic strategy for metastatic breast cancers targeted to the mitochondrial retrograde signaling pathway for abrogating emt and attenuating cancer stem cells , which evade conventional therapies .
we report a novel regulatory mechanism by which low mtdna content generates emt and cancer stem cells in hmecs.oncogene advance online publication , 4 november 2013 ; doi:10.1038/onc.2013.467 .
in normal tissues , strict control of tissue size is achieved by regulating cell numbers .
the mechanism that controls total cell number is known as contact inhibition of growth and it depends on the nf2/merlin pathway .
negative regulation of this pathway by deleterious mutations or by oncogenes results in cell transformation and tumor progression .
here we provide evidence that the cd43 sialomucin cooperates with oncogenic signals to promote cell transformation by abrogating the contact inhibition of growth through a molecular mechanism that involves akt-dependent merlin phosphorylation and degradation .
accordingly , inhibition of endogenous cd43 expression by rna interference in lung , cervix and colon human cancer cells impaired tumor growth in vivo .
these data underscore a previously unidentified role for cd43 in non-hematopoietic tumor progression .
background multiple myeloma ( mm ) is a fatal plasma cell malignancy exhibiting enhanced glucose consumption associated with an aerobic glycolytic phenotype ( i.e. , the warburg effect ) .
we have previously demonstrated that myeloma cells exhibit constitutive plasma membrane ( pm ) localization of glut4 , consistent with the dependence of mm cells on this transporter for maintenance of glucose consumption rates , proliferative capacity , and viability .
the purpose of this study was to investigate the molecular basis of constitutive glut4 plasma membrane localization in mm cells .
findings we have elucidated a novel mechanism through which myeloma cells achieve constitutive glut4 activation involving elevated expression of the rab-gtpase activating protein as160_v2 splice variant to promote the warburg effect .
as160_v2-positive mm cell lines display constitutive thr642 phosphorylation , known to be required for inactivation of as160 rab-gap activity .
importantly , we show that enforced expression of as160_v2 is required for glut4 pm translocation and activation in these select mm lines .
furthermore , we demonstrate that ectopic expression of a full-length , phospho-deficient as160 mutant is sufficient to impair constitutive glut4 cell surface residence , which is characteristic of mm cells .
conclusions this is the first study to tie as160 de-regulation to increased glucose consumption rates and the warburg effect in cancer .
future studies investigating connections between the insulin/igf-1/as160_v2/glut4 axis and fdg-pet positivity in myeloma patients are warranted and could provide rationale for therapeutically targeting this pathway in mm patients with advanced disease .
anxa2 , a member of the annexin family , is overexpressed and plays important roles in tumor development .
however , the significance of anxa2 expression in gastric carcinoma has not been clarified.to elucidate its roles in growth of gastric cancer , anxa2 expression in sgc-7901 cells was inhibited with a designated sirna , then cell proliferation , cell cycling , apoptosis and motility were determined by mtt assay , flow cytometry , hoechst 33342 staining and wound healing assay , respectively .
to further assess the behavior of anxa2 deleted sgc- 7901 cells , changes of microstructures were observed under fluorescence microscopy , laser scanning confocal microscopy and electron microscopy .
we found that inhibition of anxa2 expression caused cell proliferation to decrease significantly with g1 arrest , motility to be reduced with changes in pseudopodia/filopodia structure and f-actin and -tubulin expression , and apoptosis to be enhanced albeit without significance .
at the same time , anxa2 deletion resulted in fewer pseudopodia/filopodia , non-stained areas were increased , contact inhibition among cells reappeared , and expression of f-actin and -tubulin was decreased , with induction of polymerized disassembled forms .
taken together , these data suggest that anxa2 overexpression is important to maintain the malignancy of cancer cells , and this member of the annexin family has potential to be considered as a target for the gene therapy of gastric carcinoma .
hypoxia has long been linked to the warburg effect , yet the underlying mechanism remains largely unclear .
it is also not known if lncrnas are involved in the contribution of hypoxia to the warburg effect .
here we show that lincrna-p21 is a hypoxia-responsive lncrna and is essential for hypoxia-enhanced glycolysis .
hypoxia/hif-1-induced lincrna-p21 is able to bind hif-1 and vhl and thus disrupts the vhl-hif-1 interaction .
this disassociation attenuates vhl-mediated hif-1 ubiquitination and causes hif-1 accumulation .
these data indicate the existence of a positive feedback loop between hif-1 and lincrna-p21 that promotes glycolysis under hypoxia .
the ability of lincrna-p21 to promote tumor growth is validated in mouse xenograft models .
together , these findings suggest that lincrna-p21 is an important player in the regulation of the warburg effect and also implicate lincrna-p21 as a valuable therapeutic target for cancer .
aims : ras-induced tumorigenesis has been suggested to follow a three-stage model consisting of an initial ras activation , senescence induction , and evasion of p53-dependent senescence checkpoints .
while reactive oxygen species ( ros ) act as second messengers in ras-induced senescence , they are also involved in oncogenic transformation by inducing proliferation and promoting mutations .
in the current work , we investigated the role of extracellular superoxide dismutase ( sod3 ) in ras-induced senescence and immortalization in vitro and in vivo .
we used a mouse embryonic fibroblast ( mef ) primary cell model together with immortalized and transformed human cell lines derived from papillary and anaplastic thyroid cancer .
results : based on our data , sod3 rna interference in h-rasv12-transduced cells markedly inhibited cell growth , while sod3 over-expression in mefs initially caused a proliferative burst followed by the activation of dna damage checkpoints , induction of p53-p21 signal transduction , and senescence .
subsequently , sod3-transduced mef cells developed co-operative p21-p16 down-regulation and acquired transformed cell characteristics such as increased telomerase activity , loss of contact inhibition , growth in low-nutrient conditions , and in vivo tumorigenesis .
interestingly , as reported previously with ras , we showed a dose-dependent response to sod3 in vitro and in vivo involving transcriptional and non-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms .
innovation : sod3 may mediate h-rasv12-induced initiation of primary cell immortalization .
conclusions : our results indicate that sod3 influences growth signaling in primary and cancer cells downstream of the ras oncogene and could serve as a therapy target at an early tumorigenesis phase .
tumour cells primarily utilize aerobic glycolysis for energy production , a phenomenon known as the warburg effect .
its mechanism is not well understood .
the tumour suppressor gene p53 is frequently mutated in tumours .
many tumour-associated mutant p53 ( mutp53 ) proteins not only lose tumour suppressive function but also gain new oncogenic functions that are independent of wild-type p53 , defined as mutp53 gain of function ( gof ) .
here we show that tumour-associated mutp53 stimulates the warburg effect in cultured cells and mutp53 knockin mice as a new mutp53 gof .
mutp53 stimulates the warburg effect through promoting glut1 translocation to the plasma membrane , which is mediated by activated rhoa and its downstream effector rock .
inhibition of rhoa/rock/glut1 signalling largely abolishes mutp53 gof in stimulating the warburg effect .
furthermore , inhibition of glycolysis in tumour cells greatly compromises mutp53 gof in promoting tumorigenesis .
thus , our results reveal a new mutp53 gof and a mechanism for controlling the warburg effect .
our previous study demonstrated that 5-aminolevulinic acid ( ala ) administered to mice stimulates oxidative phosphorylation by upregulation of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex iv enzyme cytochrome c oxidase ( cox ) .
the present study investigated whether ala disrupts the warburg effect , which represents a shift in atp generation from oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis , protecting tumor cells against oxidative stress-mediated apoptosis .
the human lung carcinoma cell line a549 exposed to ala exhibited enhanced oxidative phosphorylation , which was indicated by an increase in cox protein expression and oxygen consumption .
furthermore , ala suppressed glycolysis-mediated acidosis .
this normalization of the atp metabolic pathways significantly increased the generation of superoxide anion radical ( o2- ) and the functional expression of active caspase-3 , leading to caspase-dependent apoptosis .
these data demonstrate that ala inhibits the warburg effect and induces cancer cell death .
use of this endogenous compound might constitute a novel approach to cancer therapy .
ceramide is a sphingolipid metabolite that induces cancer cell death .
when c6-ceramide is encapsulated in a nanoliposome bilayer formulation , cell death is selectively induced in tumor models .
however , the mechanism underlying this selectivity is unknown .
as most tumors exhibit a preferential switch to glycolysis , as described in the " warburg effect " , we hypothesize that ceramide nanoliposomes selectively target this glycolytic pathway in cancer .
we utilize chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) as a cancer model , which has an increased dependency on glycolysis .
in cll cells , we demonstrate that c6-ceramide nanoliposomes , but not control nanoliposomes , induce caspase 3/7-independent necrotic cell death .
nanoliposomal ceramide inhibits both the rna and protein expression of gapdh , an enzyme in the glycolytic pathway , which is overexpressed in cll .
to confirm that ceramide targets gapdh , we demonstrate that downregulation of gapdh potentiates the decrease in atp after ceramide treatment and exogenous pyruvate treatment as well as gapdh overexpression partially rescues ceramide-induced necrosis .
finally , an in vivo murine model of cll shows that nanoliposomal c6-ceramide treatment elicits tumor regression , concomitant with gapdh downregulation .
we conclude that selective inhibition of the glycolytic pathway in cll cells with nanoliposomal c6-ceramide could potentially be an effective therapy for leukemia by targeting the warburg effect .
high-throughput screening of a small-molecule library identified a 5-triazolo-2-arylpyridazinone as a novel inhibitor of the important glycolytic enzyme 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/2,6-bisphosphatase 3 ( pfkfb3 ) .
such inhibitors are of interest due to pfkfb3's control of the important glycolytic pathway used by cancer cells to generate atp .
a series of analogues was synthesized to study structure-activity relationships key to enzyme inhibition .
changes to the triazolo or pyridazinone rings were not favoured , but limited-size substitutions on the aryl ring provided modest increases in potency against the enzyme .
selected analogues and literature-described inhibitors were evaluated for their ability to suppress the glycolytic pathway , as detected by a decrease in lactate production , but none of these compounds demonstrated such suppression at non-cytotoxic concentrations .
aberrant glucose metabolism characterized by high levels of glycolysis , even in the presence of oxygen , is an important hallmark of cancer .
this metabolic reprogramming referred to as the warburg effect is essential to the survival of tumor cells and provides them with substrates required for biomass generation .
molecular mechanisms responsible for this shift in glucose metabolism remain elusive .
as described herein , we found that aberrant expression of the proinflammatory protein transglutaminase 2 ( tg2 ) is an important regulator of the warburg effect in mammary epithelial cells .
mechanistically , tg2 regulated metabolic reprogramming by constitutively activating nuclear factor ( nf)-b , which binds to the hypoxia-inducible factor ( hif)-1 promoter and induces its expression even under normoxic conditions .
tg2/nf-b-induced increase in hif-1 expression was associated with increased glucose uptake , increased lactate production and decreased oxygen consumption by mitochondria .
experimental suppression of tg2 attenuated hif-1 expression and reversed downstream events in mammary epithelial cells .
moreover , downregulation of p65/rela or hif-1 expression in these cells restored normal glucose uptake , lactate production , mitochondrial respiration and glycolytic protein expression .
our results suggest that aberrant expression of tg2 is a master regulator of metabolic reprogramming and facilitates metabolic alterations in epithelial cells even under normoxic conditions .
a tg2-induced shift in glucose metabolism helps breast cancer cells to survive under stressful conditions and promotes their metastatic competence .
